@subheading Goals

The @file{trunk/Manual} directory is the place where files related to
documentation work line are stored in.  The main goal of documentation
work line is to describe what each directory inside the CentOS Artwork
Repository is for, the conceptual ideas behind them and, if possible,
how automation scripts make use of them.

@subheading Description

The documentation work line exists to describe what each directory
inside the CentOS Artwork Repository is for, the conceptual ideas
behind them and, if possible, how automation scripts make use of them.

The CentOS Artwork Repository documentation is supported by Texinfo, a
documentation system that uses a single source file to produce both
online information and printed output. 

The repository documentation is organized under @file{trunk/Manual}
directory and uses the repository directory structre as reference.
Each directory in the repository has a documentation entry associated
in the documentation manual.  Documentation entries are stored under
@file{trunk/Manual/Directories} directory and the action itself is
controlled by the @code{help} functionality of @command{centos-art.sh}
script.  

The @code{help} functionality let you create, edit and delete
documentation entries in a way that you don't need to take care of
updating menus, nodes and cross reference information inside the
manual structure; the functionality takes care of it for you.
However, if you need to write repository documentation that have
nothing to do with repository directories (e.g., Preface, Introduction
and similar) you need to do it manually, there is no functionality to
automate such process yet.

@subheading Usage

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions Help}.
@end itemize

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Directories trunk}
@end itemize
