@subsection Goals

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subsection Description

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subsection Usage

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subsubsection Output different formats

Remove -I option from info and plaintext output. Before output info
and plaintext information we moved inside /home/centos/artwork
directory which is the base location for paths inside texinfo
documentation files. There is no need for info and plaintext output
commands to specify the -I options since the command already takes
place in the correct location the path information is correctly built
on.

Nevertheless, the -I option is still required for html output.  Once
inside /home/centos/artwork we need to move up to html output
directory in order to run texi2html output command from inthere. This
make texi2html to set relative path to images when html output is
generated. 

Relative path to images under html output directory will fail since
there is no image in such location. Instead, a different absolute
location is used. So we need to build that absolute path in order for
images can be shown as we expect.

So this why we still need to use the -I option. We use the -I option
to append the location /home/centos/artwork to texi2html search path;
and because we use @code{@@image} definition using trunk/ as root
location to define images location ... texi2html is able to find the
correct path to image, no matter where you execute the centos-art.sh
help command.

Note that we keep images and documentation output in two different
absolute locations. This is intentional. Such configuration let us
maintain documentation and images independently one another.

@subsection Usage

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subsection See also

@menu
@end menu

@subsection See also

@menu
@end menu
