@subsection Goals

This section exists to organize the ``svg'' functionality of
centos-art.sh script.

@subsection Description

The ``svg'' functionality of centos-art.sh script helps you to
maintain scalable vector graphics (SVG) inside repository. For
example, suppose you've been working in a set of (let's say 30) SVG
files, and you want to set common metadata to all of them. Doing so
file by file is a tedious task, so the centos-art.sh script provides
the ``svg'' functionality to aid you maintain such actions.

Most ``svg'' actions take one opening tag (e.g., @samp{<metadata}),
and one closing tag (e.g., @samp{</metadata}) and replace everything
in-between with the information you define. The information you need
to define is inside template files as sed's replacement commands.
Template files are stored under
@samp{trunk/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Svg/Tpl/} directory and can contain
translation markers.

Translation markers have the form @samp{=SOMETEXT=}. Translation
markers are used by ``svg'' functionalities to introduce dynamic
information (e.g., dates, keywords based on path, etc.)

@subsection Usage

@table @command
@item centos-art svg --update-metadata='path/to/dir'
Use this command to update metadata information to all @samp{.svg}
files under @samp{path/to/dir} as defined in the metadata template
file.

@item centos-art svg --update-metadata='path/to/dir' --filter='filename'
Use this command to update metadata information to
@samp{path/to/dir/filename}, as defined in the metadata template file.
@end table

@subsection See also

@menu
@end menu
