<sect1>

    <title>2009's</title>

     <para>
        Around 2009, the rendition script was at a very rustic state
        where only slide images could be produced, so it was
        redesigned to extend the image production to other areas,
        different from slide images.  In this configuration, one SVG
        file was used as input to produce a translated instance of it
        which, in turn, was used to produce one translated PNG image
        as output. The SVG translated instance was created through SED
        replacement commands. The translated PNG image was created
        from the SVG translated instance using Inkscape command-line
        interface.
    </para>

    <para>
        The repository directory structure was prepared to receive the
        rendition script using design templates and translation files
        in the same location. There was one directory structure for
        each artwork that needed to be produced. In this
        configuration, if you would want to produce the same artwork
        with a different visual style or structure, it was needed to
        create a new directory structure for it because both the image
        structure and the image visual style were together in the
        design template.
    </para>

    <para>
        The rendition script was moved to a common place and linked
        from different directory structures. There was no need to have
        the same code in different directory structures if it could be
        in just one place and then be linked from different locations.
    </para>

    <para>
        Corporate identity concepts began to be considered. As
        referece, it was used the book "Corporate Identity" by Wally
        Olins (1989) and <ulink
        url="http://en.wikipedia.org/Corporate_identity">Wikipedia</ulink>
        related links. This way, the rendition script main's goal
        becomes to: <emphasis>automate the production process of a
        monolithic corporate visual identity structure, based on the
        mission and the release schema of The CentOS
        Project</emphasis>.
    </para>

    <para>
        The repository directory structures began to be documented by
        mean of flat text files. Later, documentation in flat text
        files was moved onto LaTeX format and this way the "The CentOS
        Artwork Repository" documentation manual is initiated.
    </para>
</sect1>
