<sect1>

    <title>2011's</title>

    <para>
        Around 2011, the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script was
        redesigned to start translating XML-based files (e.g., SVG and
        Docbook files) through <command>xml2po</command> program and
        shell scripts (e.g., Bash scripts) through GNU gettext tools.
        This configuration provided a stronger localization interface
        for graphic designers, translators and programmers. The SED
        replacement files are no longer used to handle localization.
    </para>

    <para>
        The <function>render</function>, <function>help</function> and
        <function>locale</function> functionalities were consolidated
        as the most frequent tasks performed inside the repository.
        Additionally, the prepare and tuneup functionalities are also
        maintained as useful tasks.
    </para>

    <para> 
        In the documentation area, support for producing localized
        transformations of DocBook XML DTD instances was added through
        the <function>render</function> and locale functionalities.
        The <function>render</function> functionality uses the
        xsltproc command-line <acronym>XSLT</acronym> parser in
        conjunction with the styles provided by the
        <package>docbook-style-xsl</package> package, both of them
        included inside The CentOS Distribution.  The locale
        functionality creates the localized portable object
        (<acronym>PO</acronym>) the <function>render</function>
        functionality needs to produce localized transformations of
        DocBook XML DTD instances.  
    </para> 

    <para>
        To build DocBook documentation, it was considered the idea of
        using concepts behind repository directory structure as base,
        not the opposite (as I've been doing with Texinfo backend, so
        far).
    </para>

    <para>
        Producing documentation through DocBook XML as default
        documentation backend consolidates <function>render</function>
        and <function>locale</function> even more.  In this
        configuration, once the DocBook files are written, you use
        <function>locale</function> functionality to localize the
        DocBook files in your prefered language and later, using
        <function>render</function> functionality, you produce the
        XTHML and PDF outputs as specified in a XSLT or DSL
        customization layer.
    </para>

</sect1>
