@subsection Goals

Default Design Models for CentOS Themes provide design models for the
following components:

@table @strong
@item Distribution
Design models for CentOS Distribution (e.g., Anaconda, Firstboot, Gdm,
Grub, Gsplash, Kdm, Ksplash, Rhgb and Syslinux, etc.).
@xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro}, for
more information.

@item Concept
Design models to illustrate Artistic Motifs Concepts.
@xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Models Default Concept}, for
more information.

@item Promotion 
Design models for CentOS Promotion stuff (e.g., installation media,
posters, etc.). @xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Models Default
Promo}, for more information.  
@end table

@subsection Description

This directory implements the concept of @emph{Default Design Models
for CentOS Themes}.  Default Design Models for CentOS Themes provide
the common structural information (e.g., image dimensions, translation
markers, trademark position, etc.) the @command{centos-art} script
uses to produce images when no other design model is specified.

Deisgn models in this directory do use the @emph{CentOS Release
Brand}. The CentOS Release Brand is a combination of both The CentOS
Type and The CentOS Release Schema used to illustrate the major
release of CentOS Distribution the image produced belongs to.
@xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Models Tpl Brands}, for more
information.

@subsection Usage

The CentOS Project maintains near to four different major releases of
CentOS Distribution. Each major release of CentOS Distribution has
internal differences that make them unique and, at the same time, each
CentOS Distribution individually is tagged into the one unique visual
manifestation (i.e., Distribution). So, how could we implement the
monolithic visual structure in one visual manifestation that has
internal difference?

To answer this question we broke the question in two parts and later
combined the resultant answers to build a possible solution. 

@table @strong
@item How to remark the internal differences visually?

Merge both The CentOS Project Release Schema into The CentOS Project
Trademark to build The CentOS Project Release Trademark.  The CentOS
Project Release Trademark remarks two things: first, it remarks the
image is from The CentOS Project and second, it remarks which major
release of CentOS Distribution does the image belongs to.
@xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Models Tpl Brands}, for more
information on how to develop and improve The CentOS Project Brand.

@item How to remark the visual resemblance?

Use a common artistic motifs as background for all CentOS Distribution
images.  @xref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Motifs}, for more
information.

@item So, combining answers above, we could conclude that:

In order to implement the CentOS Monolithic Visual Structure on CentOS
Distribution visual manifestations, a CentOS Release Trademark and a
background information based on one unique artistic motif should be
used in all remarkable images The CentOS Distribution visual
manifestation is made of.  
@end table

@quotation
@strong{Important} Remarking the CentOS Release Schema inside each
major release of CentOS Distribution ---or similar visual
manifestations--- takes @emph{high attention} inside The CentOS
Project corporate visual identity. It should be very clear for
everyone which major release of CentOS Distribution is being used.
@end quotation

Other recommendations have been discussed in CentOS Developers mailing
list (@email{centos-devel@@centos.org}). One of them is producing one
unique visual style for @emph{each} major release of CentOS
Distribution.  That is, if we have four different major releases of
CentOS Distribution, we need to provide four different visual styles
to cover each CentOS Distribution artistic needs.  Even such schema
could be produced inside CentOS Artwork Repository, using it could
introduce visual isolation to different visual manifestations of The
CentOS Project.

As previously said, The CentOS Project maintains near to four
different major releases of CentOS Distribution in parallel and that
fact creates a complete different perspective since the structural
point of view. If one unique visual style is used for @emph{each}
major release of CentOS Distribution, which one of those different
visual styles would be used to cover other visual manifestations, like
The CentOS Web sites and The CentOS Promotion stuff?

Some persons may end up asking themselves, why the CentOS Distribution
I am using has this visual style and the CentOS Web sites a different
one?  Isn't them all part of the same project?

Creating a linear and uniform visual style for all visual
manifestations of The CentOS Project does create a strong feeling of
integrity, order and property on persons interacting with the project
through its manifestations. Every single detail, in every
manifestation The CentOS Project expresses out its existence say what
The CentOS Project is.

I don't think The CentOS Project as an ambiguous project, but a direct
and very pragmatic project where its community makes the central axis
of movement. A manifestation of freedom to people to use computers and
share as natural right. A manifestation of people kindness whose make
the best they know to do in favor of themselves as manifestation of
everyone else.  In such feeling there is no space for contradictions
or ununiform visual structures, but very uniform visual structures
that can be altered by anyone to fit personal needs.

I strongly believe that The CentOS Project, as social organization,
should be that way uniform and provide the means to let everyone do
customzations in their own basis whenever it be clear that once such
uniformity has been changed by someone differnt to The CentOS Project,
it is no longer a visual manifestation of The CentOS Project, but a
modified visual manifestation of The CentOS Project.

@subsection See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes}
@item @ref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Models}
@item @ref{Filesystem trunk Identity Themes Motifs}
@end itemize
