<?xml version="1.0"?>
<section>

    <title>Extending repository organization</title>

    <para>Occasionly, you may find that new components of The CentOS
    Project Corporate Identity need to be added to the repository in
    order to work them out. If that is the case, the first question we
    need to ask ourselves, before start to create directories blindly
    all over, is: @emph{What is the right place to store it?}</para>
    
    <para>The best place to find answers is in The CentOS Community
    (see page @url{http://wiki.centos.org/GettingHelp}), but going
    there with hands empty is not good idea. It may give the
    impression you don't really care about. Instead, consider the
    following suggestions to find your own comprehension in order to
    make your own propositions based on it.</para>
    
    <para>When extending respository structure it is very useful to
    bear in mind The CentOS Project Corporate Identity Structure
    (@pxref{Directories trunk Identity}) The CentOS Mission and The
    CentOS Release Schema. The rest is just matter of choosing
    appropriate names. It is also worth to know that each directory in
    the repository responds to a conceptual idea that justifies its
    existence.</para>
    
    <para>To build a directory structure, you need to define the
    conceptual idea first and later create the directory. There are
    some locations inside the repository that already define some
    concepts you probably want to reuse. For example,
    @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Themes} to store theme artistic
    motifs, @file{trunk/Identity/Models/Themes} to store theme design
    models, @file{trunk/Manual} to store documentation files,
    @file{trunk/Locales} to store translation messages,
    @file{trunk/Scripts} to store automation scripts and so on.</para>
    
    <para>To illustrate this desition process let's consider the
    @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/TreeFlower/3} directory
    structure as example.  This directory can be read as: the theme
    development line of version @file{3} of @file{TreeFlower} artistic
    motif. Additional, we can identify that artistic motifs are part
    of themes as well as themes are part of The CentOS Project
    Corporate Identity. These concepts are better described
    independently in each documentation entry related to the directory
    structure as it is respectively shown in the list of commands
    bellow.
    
    <itemizedlist> 
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk</command></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk/Identity</command></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk/Identity/Images</command></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk/Identity/Images/Themes</command></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk/Identity/Images/Themes/TreeFlower</command></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para><command>centos-art help --read turnk/Identity/Images/Themes/TreeFlower/3</command></para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist> 
    
    </para>
    
    <para>The concepts behind other location can be found in the same
    way described above, just change the path information used above
    to the one you are trying to know concepts for.</para>
    
</section>
