<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect2 id="repository-usage-section-4-2" xreflabel="Graphic design" label="3.4.2">

    <title>Documentation</title>

    <para>The documentation work line exists to describe what each
    directory inside the CentOS Artwork Repository is for, the
    conceptual ideas behind them and, if possible, how automation
    scripts make use of them.</para>
    
    <para>The CentOS Artwork Repository documentation is supported by
    Texinfo, a documentation system that uses a single source file to
    produce both online information and printed output.</para>
    
    <para>The repository documentation is organized under
    @file{trunk/Manual} directory and uses the repository directory
    structre as reference.  Each directory in the repository has a
    documentation entry associated in the documentation manual.
    Documentation entries are stored under
    @file{trunk/Manual/Directories} directory and the action itself is
    controlled by the @code{help} functionality of
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.</para>
    
    <para>The @code{help} functionality let you create, edit and
    delete documentation entries in a way that you don't need to take
    care of updating menus, nodes and cross reference information
    inside the manual structure; the functionality takes care of it
    for you.  However, if you need to write repository documentation
    that have nothing to do with repository directories (e.g.,
    Preface, Introduction and similar) you need to do it manually,
    there is no functionality to automate such process yet.</para>
    
    <para>@xref{Directories trunk Manual}, for more information on
    documentation.</para>
    
</sect2>
