<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repository-usage-section-1" xreflabel="Policy" label="3.1">

    <title>Policy</title>
    
    <para>The CentOS Artwork Repository is a collaborative tool that
    anyone can have access to. However, changing that tool in any form
    is something that should be requested in the <ulink
    url="mailto:centos-devel@centos.org">CentOS Developers mailing
    list</ulink>.  Generally, people download working copies from
    CentOS Artwork Repository, study the repository organization, make
    some changes in their working copies, make some tests to verify
    such changes do work the way expected and finally request access
    to commit them up to the CentOS Artwork Repository (i.e., the
    source repository) for others to benefit from them.</para>
    
    <para>Once you've received access to commit your changes, there is
    no need for you to request permission again to commit other
    changes from your working copy to CentOS Artwork Repository as
    long as you behave as a <emphasis>good cooperating
    citizen</emphasis>. Otherwise, your rights to commit changes might
    be temporarly revoked or completly banished.</para>
    
    <para>As a good cooperating citizen one understand of a person who
    respects the work already done by others and share ideas with
    authors before changing relevant parts of their work, specially in
    situations when the access required to realize the changes has
    been granted already.  Of course, there is a time when
    conversation has taken place, the paths has been traced and
    changing the work is so obvious that there is no need for you to
    talk about it; that's because you already did, you already built
    the trust to keep going. Anyway, the mailing list mentioned above
    is available for sharing ideas in a way that good relationship
    between community citizens could be constantly balanced.</para>
    
    <para>The relationship between community citizens is monitored by
    repository administrators. Repository administrators are
    responsible of granting everything goes the way it needs to go in
    order for the CentOS Artwork Repository to accomplish its mission
    which is: to provide a colaborative tool for The CentOS Community
    where The CentOS Project Corporate Identity is built and
    maintained by The CentOS Community itself.</para>
    
    <para>It is also important to remember that all source files
    inside CentOS Artwork Repository should comply the terms of <xref
    linkend="licenses-gpl-chapter" /> in order for them to remain
    inside the repository.</para>

</sect1>
