<sect1 id="manuals-texinfo-structure">

    <title>Document Structure</title>

    <para>
        The document structure provides the organization needed to
        make the documentation scalable and maintainable through time
        which, in turn, involves document sectioning and file
        organization inside specific locations of the working copy.
        The document structure is also a convenction we adopt in order
        to automate frequent tasks related to the document structure
        itself. Without a well defined document structure convenction,
        it would be very difficult for automation script to guess
        where the documentation files are.
    </para>

    <para>
        The file organization of Texinfo documentation backend takes
        place in <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Repository/Texinfo/</filename>
        directory. Inside this location there is one documentation
        structure for each language you want to support and the
        <filename>repository-init.pl</filename> and
        <filename>repository.sed</filename> files which let you
        control common characteristics of final XHTML output (e.g.,
        <command>texi2html</command> initialization, and markup
        transformations).
    </para>

    <para>
        The document sectioning follows the idea of an upside-down
        tree to organize chapters, sections, subsections, and the
        like. The document initiates with a Top node where we placed
        document's title, copyright note, abstract, and a list of
        available chapters to start browsing. Inside each chapter the
        information is logically organized in sections which in turn
        are subdivided in subsections and subsubsections.
    </para>

    <para>
        The Texinfo document structure produced by
        <function>help</function> functionality organizes information
        in two chapters only, which are:

        <orderedlist>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            Directories &mdash; This chapter organizes documentation
            entries related to repository directories. In the normal
            work flow, you don't need to touch the files of this
            chapter by your own. For that purpose, the
            <command>centos-art.sh</command> script porovides the
            <function>help</function> functionality. To manipulate
            documentation entries in this chapter, you use the
            <function>help</function> functionality as described in
            <xref linkend="scripts-bash-help" />.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            Licenses &mdash; This chapter includes licenses from
            <filename
            class="directory">trunk/Scripts/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates/<replaceable>language</replaceable>/Licenses/</filename>
            directory. In the normal work flow, you don't need to
            touch this chapter. It is created when the document
            structure is created and should ramain that way. If you
            need to improve the markup, update the template files for
            your language, not the content of this chapter.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        </orderedlist>

    </para>
 
    <para>
        At the same level of chapter directories, the
        <filename>repository.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>repository-index.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>repository-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>repository-nodes.texinfo</filename> files exist to
        set manual's main definitions (e.g., title, copyright notice,
        chapters, appendixes, indexes and all the similar stuff a
        documentation manual should have).
    </para>
    <para>
        Inside each chapter directory, the
        <filename>chapter.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>chapter-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>chapter-nodes.texinfo</filename> files exist to
        control definition of sections.  In addition to these files,
        there are documentation entries to store the document's content
        itself, using arbitrary file names prefixed with the <filename
        class="extension">texinfo</filename> extension, just as it is
        illustrated in <xref linkend="manuals-texinfo-structure-eg1"
        />.
    </para>

    <example id="manuals-texinfo-structure-eg1">
    <title>Texinfo backend's document structure.</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo backend's document structure.</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>trunk/Manuals/Repository/Texinfo
|-- en_US
|   |-- Directories
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter.texinfo
|   |   |-- trunk/Identity.texinfo
|   |   `-- trunk.texinfo
|   |-- Licenses
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   `-- chapter.texinfo
|   |-- repository-index.texinfo
|   |-- repository-menu.texinfo
|   |-- repository-nodes.texinfo
|   `-- repository.texinfo
|-- repository-init.pl
|-- repository.css
`-- repository.sed</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

</sect1>
