-- 2008 --

The CentOS Artwork Repository started at CentOS Developers mailing list.

Alain Reguera Delgado shares ideas in a thread about Anaconda progress
slide images and the possibility of automating their construction.

Ralph Angenendt rises up his hand asking: Do you have something to
show?

Alain Reguera Delgado posts a Bash script to produce slide images in
different languages ---together with the proposition of creating a
Subversion centralized repository where translations and image
production could be distributed inside CentOS Community---.

Karanbirn Sighn considers the idea intresting and provides the
infrastructure to support the effort as the CentOS Artwork SIG.

    https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/
    https://projects.centos.org/trac/artwork/

Alain Reguera Delagdo uploads the rendering script to CentOS Artwork
Repository.

Ralph Angenendt documents the rendering script.

With the rendering script and the rendering script documentation
available, translators start to download working copies of CentOS
Artwork Repository and to produce slide images in their own languages.

-- 2009 --

It is very difficult for Alain Reguera Delgado to have Internet access
but continues developing the rendering script off-line.  From that
time on, the rendering script starts to evolve into centos-art.sh
script, a command-line interface to manipulate the CentOS Artwork
Repository.

Corporate identity concepts taken from Wikipedia and related books are
introduced as development reference. The main goal of centos-art.sh
becomes: automating production of a monolithic corporate visual
identity structure based on CentOS Mission and CentOS Release Schema. 

LaTeX-based documentation begins to take form.

-- 2010 -- 

Inside centos-art.sh script, start to get identified internal
functionalities and separate them one from another. For example, when
images are rendered, there is no need to load manual functionality.

The directory structure is optimized to corporate identity concepts
and centos-art.sh script.  The CentOS Artwork Repository directory
structure places the organizational convenctions that centos-art.sh
script needs to do what we expect from it to do.

The following functionalities start to take form:

    Render
    ------
    To produce translated images using Inkscape and Sed replacement
    commands.

    Manual
    ------
    To administer repository documentation using Texinfo and
    texi2html. This made possible to migrate almost all documentation
    from LaTeX-based to Texinfo-based.
     
    Locale 
    ------
    To translate centos-art.sh command-line interface messages using
    gettext.

    Shell  
    -----
    To perform massive actions inside shell scripts.
    
    Svg
    ---
    To perform massive actions inside SVG files.

    Html
    ----
    To perform massive actions inside HTML files.

    Path
    ----
    To automate manipulation of files, branches, and tags. 

    About
    -----
    To print license, authors, history, copying, etc.

2011 -- 
