<sect1 id="repo-convs-layout">

    <title>Repository Layout</title>

    <para>
        &TCAR; is supported by <ulink
        url="http://subversion.tigris.org/">Subversion</ulink>, a
        version control system which allows you to keep old versions
        of files and directories (usually source code), keep a log of
        who, when, and why changes occurred, etc., like CVS, RCS or
        SCCS.
    </para>

    <para>
        &TCAR; is made of one <quote>source repository</quote> and
        many <quote>working copies</quote> of that source repository.
        The working copies are independent one another, can be
        distributed all around the world and provide a local place for
        designers, documentors, translators and programmers to perform
        their work in a descentralized way.  The source repository, on
        the other hand, provides a central place for all independent
        working copies to interchange data and provides the
        information required to permit extracting previous versions of
        files at any time.
    </para>

    <para>
        The first level of directories inside &TCAR; provides
        organization through a convenctional <filename
        class="directory">trunk/</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">branches/</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">tags/</filename> layout. As propossition we
        are assuming that:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The <filename class="directory">trunk/</filename>
            directory is where development changes take place.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            The <filename class="directory">branches/</filename>
            directory is where maintainance changes take place.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            The <filename class="directory">tags/</filename> directory
            is where final releases take place.
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        The second level of directories inside &TCAR; provides
        organization for different work lines, as described in <xref
        linkend="repo-convs-worklines" />.  All other subsequent
        directory levels from third level on exist to organize
        specific concepts related to the work line they belong to.
    </para>

</sect1>
