<sect1 id="repo-convs-publishing">

    <title>Repository Publishing</title>
 
    <para>
        When you perform changes inside your working copy, those
        changes are local to your working copy only. In order for you
        to share your changes with others, you need to commit them up
        to the central repository the working copy you are using was
        initially downloaded from. To commit your changes up to the
        central repository you use the <command>commit</command>
        command of Subversion's client installed in your workstation.
    </para>


    <para>
        Initially, when you get registered inside &TCAR;, you won't be
        able to publish your changes to &TCAR; immediatly. It is
        necessary that you prove your interest in contributing first,
        preferably in conjunction with a description of the changes
        you pretend to commit. This restriction is necessary in order
        to protect the source repository from spammers.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Once you've received access to publish your changes, they will
        remain valid to you and there is no need for you to request
        permission to publish new changes as long as you behave as a
        good cooperating citizen. 
    </para>
        
    <para>
        As a good cooperating citizen one understand of a person who
        respects the work already done by others and share ideas with
        authors before changing relevant parts of their work,
        specially in situations when the access required to realize
        the changes has been granted already.  Of course, there is a
        time when conversation has taken place, the paths has been
        traced and changing the work is so obvious that there is no
        need for you to talk about it; that's because you already did,
        you already built the trust to keep going. As complement, the
        mailing list mentioned above is available for sharing ideas in
        a way that good relationship between community citizens could
        be constantly balanced.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        The relationship between community citizens is monitored by
        repository administrators. Repository administrators are
        responsible of granting that everything goes the way it needs
        to go in order for &TCAR; to accomplish its mission.
    </para>

</sect1>
