<sect1 id="repo-convs-relbdirs">

    <title>Repository Path Types</title>

    <para>
        In order for automation scripts to produce content inside a
        working copy of &TCAR;, it is required that all work lines be
        related somehow.  The relation between work lines is used by
        automation scripts to know where to retrive the information
        they need to work with (e.g., input files, translation
        messages, output locations, etc.).  This kind of relation is
        built using two path constructions known as <emphasis>master
        paths</emphasis> and <emphasis>auxiliar paths</emphasis>.
    </para>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-relbdirs-master">
    <title>Master Paths</title>

    <para>
        A master path refers to a directory inside the repository that
        contain input files required to produce output files through
        automation scripts. Examples of master paths inside the
        repository include:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Brands</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Tcar-ug</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes/Default/Distro/5/Anaconda</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-relbdirs-auxiliar">
    <title>Auxiliar Paths</title>

    <para>
        An auxiliar path refers to directories inside the repository
        considered auxiliar for one single master path. Auxiliar path
        can be either for output or localization. Assuming the master
        path provides the input information, the auxiliar paths
        provide the auxiliar information which describes how and where
        that input information must be rendered by automation scripts.
        Examples of auxiliar paths inside the repository include:
    </para>
        
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Brands</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Tcar-ug/es_ES</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Locales/Manuals/Tcar-ug/es_ES</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/Flame/3/Distro/5/Anaconda/es_ES</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Locales/Identity/Models/Default/Distro/5/Anaconda/es_ES</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        The relationship between master and auxiliar paths is built by
        combining the second directory level of master paths with
        directories in the second directory level of repository
        layout. In the second directory level of repository layout,
        the <filename class="directory">Identity</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">Manuals</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">Scripts</filename> directories are always
        used to create the master paths and the output auxiliar paths.
        The <filename class="directory">Locales</filename> directory,
        on the other hand, is always used to create localization
        auxiliar paths for all the master paths available under
        <filename class="directory">Identity</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">Manuals</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">Scripts directories</filename>.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        For example, if the <varname>LANG</varname> environment
        variable is set to <quote>es_ES.UTF-8</quote> and you execute
        the <function>render</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script with the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Tcar-ug</filename>  master
        path as argument, it will produce &TCARUG; in Spanish language
        using translation messages from
        <filename>trunk/Locales/Manuals/Tcar-ug/es_ES</filename>
        auxiliar path and would save final documentation output files
        under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Tcar-ug/es_ES</filename>
        auxiliar path.
    </para>

    </sect2>

</sect1>
