<sect1 id="repo-convs-worklines">

    <title>Repository Work Lines</title>

    <para>
        The content production inside &TCAR; has been divided into
        individual work lines that relate one another based on the
        idea of doing one thing well. In this model, the content
        produced individually by each work line is combined one
        another later to achieve higher purposes (e.g., corporate
        identity for &TCP;). The repository work lines, as conceived
        here, provide a relaible environment for people to work
        syncronized and descentralized.
    </para>

    <para>
        The action of combining work lines one another inside &TCAR;
        is known as the corporate identity production cycle. The rest
        of this section describes the work lines available in the
        repository and their position inside the corporate identity
        production cycle. 
    </para>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-worklines-idenity">

    <title>Visual Identity</title>

    <para>
        The visual identity is the first component we work out in
        order to produce a new corporate identity.  Through this work
        line, graphic designers create <quote>models</quote> and
        <quote>motifs</quote> for all the visual manifestation &TCP;
        is made of.  Once design models and artistic motifs are set in
        place, graphic designers use the <function>render</function>
        functionality described in <xref linkend="scripts-bash-render"
        /> to combine both design models and artistic motifs into
        final images.
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purposes of this work line is define all the visual
        manifestations the &TCP; is made of and provide design models
        and artistic motifs for them in order to render the set of
        images required to transmit the visual style that identifies
        &TCP; as unique organization. To know more about &TCPCVI;,
        read <xref linkend="identity" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        The visual identity work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/trunk/Identity"><filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>


    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-worklines-l10n">

    <title>Localization</title>

    <para>
        The content localization is the second component that must be
        worked out in the corporate identity production cycle.
        Through this work line translators localize source files
        (e.g., SVG, DocBook, Shell scripts) which are later use to
        produce localized images, localized documentation and
        localized automation scripts.  To localize source files,
        translators use 
        the <function>locale</function> functionality described in
        <xref linkend="scripts-bash-locale" /> which takes care of
        retriving translatable strings from source files and provide a
        consistent localization interface based on GNU
        <application>gettext</application> multi-lingual message
        production tool set and <command>xml2po</command> command.
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is extend the visual
        identity (produced in English language) to as many native
        languages as possible in order for people which doesn't
        understand English languague to feel more confortable with
        &TCP; and its messages. To know more about the specific
        localization process read <xref linkend="locale" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        The localization work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/trunk/Locales"><filename
        class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-worklines-manuals">

    <title>Documentation</title>

    <para>
        The documentation work line is the third component that must
        be worked out in the corporate identity production cycle.
        Through this work line documentors settle down the conceptual
        and practical used to edificate &TCAR;.  To write
        documentation, documentors use the <function>help</function>
        functionality described in <xref linkend="scripts-bash-help"
        /> which provides a consistent interface for building
        documentation through different documentation backends (e.g.,
        Texinfo, DocBook, LaTeX, etc.).
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is describe the standard
        procedures &TCAR; realies on, as well as conceive a place to
        help you understand what &TCAR; is and what can you do with
        it.
    </para>

    <para>
        The documentation work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/trunk/Manuals"><filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-worklines-packaging">
    <title>Packaging</title>

    <para>
        ...
    </para>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-convs-worklines-scripts">

    <title>Automation</title>

    <para>
        The automation work line is the fifth and last component that
        must be worked out in the corporate identity production cycle.
        This work line closes the production cycle and provides the
        production standards graphic designers, documentors,
        translators and packagers need to make their work consistent
        and reusable.  For this purpose, programmers develop the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script described in <xref
        linkend="scripts" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is standardize the
        interaction of work lines in a reliable way.
    </para>

    <para>
        The automation work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/trunk/Scripts"><filename
        class="directory">trunk/Scripts</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </sect2>

</sect1>
