<section id="repo-convs-relbdirs">

    <title>Repository Path Relations</title>

    <para>
        In order for automation scripts to produce content inside a
        working copy of &TCAR;, it is required that all work lines be
        related somehow.  The automation scripts take the relation
        between work lines as reference to determine the place the
        information they will work with will be retrieve from (e.g.,
        scalable vector graphics, documentation, translations, etc.),
        as well as the place where it will store the final files
        produced as result of automation process (e.g., portable
        network graphics, documentation ready for printing and reading
        online, etc.).
    </para>
    <para>
        In order to implement the relation between work lines it is
        required to establish a path name convenction, so we can
        conceptually organize different components and relate them one
        another using predictable path constructions in a scalable
        way. Based on this need, we identify three different path
        types inside &TCAR;.  These path types are: <emphasis>Output
        Paths</emphasis>, <emphasis>Input Paths</emphasis>, and
        <emphasis>Auxiliary Paths</emphasis>.
    </para>

    <section id="repo-convs-relbdirs-renderable">
    <title>Output Paths</title>

    <para>
        The output paths point to directories inside the working copy
        which contain files produced from files inside the input
        paths. For example, the following paths are consider as output
        paths:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Documentation/Manuals/Tcar-ug/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/Modern/2/Distro/5/Anaconda/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        Output paths are also known as <emphasis><quote>Render-able
        Directories</quote></emphasis> because they are the type of
        path you should provide as argument to <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-render" /> functionality so as to
        produce content through it.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-relbdirs-designmodels">
    <title>Input Paths</title>
    <para>
        The input paths point to a directories inside the working copy
        which contain files used to produce files inside output paths.
        For example, the following paths are considered as input
        paths:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Brands/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Documentation/Models/Tcar-ug/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes/Default/Distro/5/Anaconda/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-relbdirs-auxiliar">
    <title>Auxiliary Paths</title>

    <para>
        The auxiliary paths point to directories inside the working
        copy which contain files used to create modified instances of 
        inside input paths which are use in turn to produce files
        inside output paths.  For example, the following paths are
        considered as auxiliary paths:
    </para>
        
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Locales/Documentation/Models/Docbook/Tcar-ug/es_ES/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Locales/Identity/Models/Themes/Default/Distro/5/Anaconda/es_ES/</filename>
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    
    <para>
        The relationship between input, output and auxiliary paths is
        created by combining the second directory level of input paths
        with the second directory level in the repository directory
        layout. In the repository directory layout, the second level
        includes the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Documentation</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Scripts</filename> directories. These
        directories are always used to create input and output paths.
        The <filename class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename>
        directory, on the other hand, is always used to create
        auxiliary paths only for input paths available under <filename
        class="directory">Identity</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">Documentation</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">Scripts</filename> directories.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        For example, if the <varname>LANG</varname> environment
        variable is set to <quote>es_ES.UTF-8</quote> and you execute
        the <xref linkend="scripts-bash-render"/> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script with the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Documentation/Manuals/Docbook/Tcar-ug/</filename>
        input path as argument, it will produce &TCARUG; in Spanish
        language using translation messages from
        <filename>trunk/Locales/Documentation/Models/Docbook/Tcar-ug/es_ES/</filename>
        auxiliary path and would save final documentation files under
        <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Documentation/Manuals/Docbook/Tcar-ug/es_ES/</filename>
        output path.
    </para>

    </section>

</section>
