@subheading Name

The @code{help} functionlity is part of @command{centos-art.sh} script
and standardizes documentation tasks inside the working copy of CentOS
Artwork Repository.

@subheading Synopsis

@command{centos-art help [OPTIONS] path/to/dir @dots{}}

The @file{path/to/dir} parameter specifies what directory structure
inside the working copy of CentOS Artwork Repository you want to
process. 

The @code{help} functionality of @command{centos-art.sh} script
accepts the following options:

@table @option
@item --quiet

Supress all output messages except error messages.  When this option
is passed, all confirmation requests are supressed as well and a
possitive answer is assumed for them, just as if the
@option{--answer-yes} option had been provided.

@item --answer-yes

Assume `yes' to all confirmation requests.

@item --dont-commit-changes

Supress all commit and update actions realized over files, before and
after the action itself had took place over files in the working copy.

@item --backend="STRING"

Specifies the documentation system used as backend to manage the
repository documentation manual. When this option is not provided, the
@samp{texinfo} documentation system is used as default backend.

@quotation
@strong{Redirection}
@xref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions Help Backends}, to know more
about documentation backends and their characteristics.
@end quotation

@item --search="STRING"

Go to node pointed by index entry @samp{STRING}.

@item --edit "path/to/dir"

Edit documentation entry related to path specified by
@file{path/to/dir}. 

The @file{path/to/dir} must point to any directory inside the
repository. When more than one @file{path/to/dir} are passed as
non-option arguments to the @command{centos-art.sh} script
command-line, they are queued for further edition.  The edition itself
takes place through your default text editor (e.g., the one you
specified in the @env{EDITOR} environment variable) and the text
editor opens one file at time (i.e., the queue of files to edit is not
loaded in the text editor.).

@item --read "path/to/dir"

Read documentation entry specified by @file{file/to/dir} path.  This
option is used internally by @command{centos-art.sh} script to print
out the reference you can follow to know more about an error message.

@item --update

Update output files rexporting them from the specified backend source
files.

@item --copy "path/to/srcdir" "path/to/dstdir"

Duplicate documentation entries inside the working copy of CentOS
Artwork Repository.

When documentation entries are copied, only two non-option arguments
can be passed to @command{centos-art.sh} script. In this case, the
first non-option argument is considered the source location and the
second one the target location. Both source location and target
location must point to a directory under the working copy or files
under @file{trunk/Manuals/Texinfo/Directories} directory structure.

@item --delete "path/to/dir"

Delete documentation entries inside the working copy of CentOS
Artwork Repository.

@item --rename "path/to/srcdir" "path/to/dstdir"

Rename documentation entries inside the working copy of CentOS Artwork
Repository.

When documentation entries are renamed, only two non-option arguments
can be passed to @command{centos-art.sh} script. In this case, the
first non-option argument is considered the source location and the
second one the target location. Both source location and target
location must point to a directory under the working copy or files
under @file{trunk/Manuals/Texinfo/Directories} directory structure.

@end table

When documentation entries are removed (e.g., through
@option{--delete} or @option{--rename} options), the
@command{centos-art.sh} script takes care of updating nodes, menus and
cross references related to documentation entries in order to keep the
manual structure in a correct state.

@subheading Description

Inside the CentOS Artwork Repository, The CentOS Project corporate
identity is organized through directories. Each directory inside the
repository responds to one or more conceptual ideas. Conceptual ideas
are implemented through files.  

The @code{help} functionality of @command{centos-art.sh} script uses
the repository directory layout as reference to document the
conceptual ideas it is based on. Each directory inside the repository
can be documented, in order to provide the explanation of what it is
for and how automation scripts use it.

@quotation
@strong{Caution} When the repository directory layout changes, the
documentation layout related must be changed as well in order for both
locations to be consistent in their paths. Otherwise, you may end up
having documentation entries that point to unexistent directories in
the repository.
@end quotation

Files inside the repository are not documented. The only exception to
this rule are files under @file{trunk/Manuals} directory, the place
where documentation source files are stored in. Inside this location
you can refer files for direct actions using the @code{help}
functionality of @command{centos-art.sh} script. File actions, in this
location, are also used to manage specific parts of the manual which
have no association outside @file{trunk/Manuals} directory (e.g.,
Preface, Introduction, etc.).

@subheading Examples

@table @command
@item centos-art help --edit trunk/Identity

This command edits the documentation entry related to
@file{trunk/Identity} directory.

@item centos-art help --read trunk/Identity

This command reads the doumentation entry related to
@file{trunk/Identity} directory in info format.

@end table

@subheading Author

Written by Alain Reguera Delgado.

@subheading Reporting bugs

Report bugs to @email{centos-artwork@@centos.org} mailing list.

@subheading Copyright

Copyright @copyright{}  2009, 2010, 2011 The CentOS Project.

This  is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the @ref{GNU General Public License}.  There is NO WARRANTY,
to the extent permitted by law.

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions}
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts}
@item @ref{Directories trunk}
@end itemize
