<sect1 id="server-usage-users">

    <title>Administering Users Accounts</title>

    <para>
        In order for you to use any service provided by the server
        computer it is required that you register yourself inside the
        server computer creating a user profile.  The user profile
        provides the user information required by services inside the
        server computer (e.g., username, password, e-mail address,
        telephone number, etc.). To register new user profiles, you
        need to use the web application provided by the server
        computer. For example, assuming the domain name of the server
        computer is <systemitem
        class="domainname">example.com</systemitem>, the web
        application would be accessable through the following URL:
        <ulink url="https://example.com/people/?action=register" />.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        To reach the web interface, the first thing you need to do is
        establishing a dial-up connection to the server computer as
        described in <xref
        linkend="server-config"/>. Once the
        dial-up connection has been established, you need to open a
        web browser (e.g., Firefox) and put the URL mentioned above in
        the address space, and press Enter to go. This will present
        you a web page with the instructions you need to follow in
        order to register your user profile.  Other actions like
        updating or deleting your own user profile should be also
        possible from this web interface.
    </para>

    <important>
    <para>
        The web interface used to manage user profiles inside the
        server computer must be presented over an encrypted session in
        order to protect all the information passing through.
    </para>
    </important>

    <para>
        Inside the server computer, all related subsystems in need of
        user information (e.g., Postix, Cyrus-Imapd and Saslauthd)
        retrive user information from one single (LDAP) source. The
        web application provided by the server computer manages all
        these subsystems' configuration files in order to provide a
        pleasant experience for end users.  The web interface must be
        as simple as possible in order to achieve all administration
        tasks in the range of time permitted by the server computer
        before it closes the connection established from the client
        computer.
    </para>

    <para>
        More information about the web interface you need to use to
        manage your user profile inside the server computer can be
        found in ....
    </para>

</sect1>
