<sect1 id="identity-project-design">

    <title>Corporate Design</title>

    <para>
        The corporate design is focused on the effective presentation 
        of corporate messages. As corporate messages we understand all
        the information emitted from the organization; and when we say
        <emphasis>all</emphasis> we mean everything that can be
        perceived through the human senses. The corporate design takes
        care of defining what this information is and controlling the
        way it goes out the organization producing it.
    </para>

    <para>
        When the organization doesn't take control over the corporate
        messages it produces, the organization is letting that area of
        its identity to the unknown and the results might be good or
        not so good, it is hard to know.  The issue to see here is
        that even the organization doesn't take control over its
        corporate messages, they are always talking about the
        organization.  Taking control of corporate messages is a
        decition the organization needs to take by itself, based on
        its need of better describe what it is. 
    </para>

    <para>
        In the very specific case of &TCP;, we'll concentrate our
        attention on corporate messages that reach us through the
        visual sense. This is, all the visual manifestations &TCP; is
        made of. As visual manifestaions we understand all the visible
        media &TCP; uses to manifest its existence on.  At this point
        it is necessary to consider what &TCP; is, what its mission is
        and what it is producing. This, in order to identify which
        visual manifestations the organization is demanding attention
        of corporate design for.
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside &TCP; we identify and apply corporate design to the
        following visual manifestations:

        <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
        <listitem>
        <para>
            &TCD; &mdash; This visual manifestation exists to cover
            all actions related to artwork production and rebranding,
            required by &TCD; in order to comply with upstream's
            redistribution guidelines. This visual manifestation is
            described in <xref linkend="identity-distro" />.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            &TCW; &mdash; This visual manifestation exists to cover
            all actions related to artwork production required by
            &TCP; to manifest its existence in the World Wide Web
            medium. This visual manifestation is described in <xref
            linkend="identity-web" />.
        </para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
        <para>
            &TCS; &mdash; This visual manifestation exists to cover
            all actions related to artwork production required by
            &TCP; to manifest its existence through media produced
            industrially (e.g., stationery, clothes, CDs, DVDs, etc.).
            This visual manifestation is described in <xref
            linkend="identity-showroom" />.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </orderedlist>

    </para>

    <para>
        The visual manifestations identified above seem to cover most
        media required by &TCP;, as organization, to show its
        existence.  However, other visual manifestations could be
        added in the future, as long as they be needed, to cover
        different areas like stands, buildings, offices, road
        transportation or whaterver visual manifestation &TCP;
        thouches to show its existence.
    </para>

    <para>
        Once all visual manifestations have been identified and
        defined through design models, it is time to visually remark
        their connection with &TCP;.  This kind of connection is
        realized by applying &TCB; to design models inside visual
        manifestations supported through corporate design.
    </para>

</sect1>
