@subheading Goals

This section describes design models from The CentOS Themes.

@subheading Description

Theme models let you modeling characteristics (e.g., dimensions,
translation markers, position of each element on the display area,
etc.) common to all themes.  Theme models let you reduce the time
needed when propagating artistic motifs to different visual
manifestations.

Theme models serves as a central pool of design templates for themes
to use. This way you can produce themes with different artistic motifs
but same characteristics.

@subsubheading Default Design Model

Default Design Models for CentOS Themes provide the common structural
information (e.g., image dimensions, translation markers, trademark
position, etc.) the @command{centos-art} script uses to produce images
when no other design model is specified.

@subsubheading Alternative Design Models

CentOS alternative theme models exist for people how want to use a
different visual style on their installations of CentOS distribution.
As the visual style is needed for a system already installed
components like Anaconda are not required inside alternative themes.
Inside alternative themes you find post-installation visual style only
(i.e.  Backgrounds, Display Managers, Grub, etc.).  CentOS alternative
themes are maintained by CentOS Community.

@subheading Usage

@itemize
@item --- @strong{Removed}(xref:Directories trunk Identity Models Themes Default) ---.
@end itemize

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Directories trunk Identity Images Themes}.
@item @ref{Directories trunk Identity}.
@item @ref{Directories trunk}.
@end itemize
