<sect1 id="manuals-format-texinfo">

    <title>Texinfo</title>

    <para>
        This section describes the implementation of Texinfo
        documentation format inside the <function>help</function>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script
        described in <xref linkend="scripts-bash-help" />. In this
        section we assume you have a basic understanding of Texinfo
        documentation system. Otherwise, if you don't know what
        Texinfo documentation system is, read the Texinfo manual first
        (e.g., by running the <command>info texinfo</command> command)
        and then, come back here.
    </para>

    <sect2 id="manuals-formats-texinfo-structure">
    <title>Document Structure</title>
    <para>
        The <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> provides a document structure
        that makes documentation manuals created through it to be
        scalable and maintainable through time.  This document
        structure follows the idea of an upside-down tree to organize
        chapters, sections, subsections and the like, as described in
        <xref linkend="manuals-production-identifying-structure" />.
    </para>

    <para> 
        The first time you use the <function>help</function>
        functionality to create a documentation manual in Texinfo
        format, the <function>help</function> functionality considers
        the working directory you are placed in to determine where to
        store the documentation manual source files.  When the current
        working directory is <filename
        class="directory">branches/Manuals/Texinfo</filename>, the
        documentation manual directory is created therein.  On all
        other situations, the documentation manual directory is
        created under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> directory.  Once
        the documentation manual directory has been created, the
        <function>help</function> functionality creates the related
        definition files using Texinfo documentation templates, as
        described in <xref linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-templates"
        />.
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside the documentation manual directory, source files are
        stored inside language-specific directories. The
        language-specific directories are necessary to implement
        internationalization of Texinfo source files, as described in
        <xref linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-l10n" />.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Inside the language-specific directory, the following files
        exist to store the manual's main definitions (e.g., title,
        subtitle, author, copyright notice, chapters, appendixes,
        indexes and all the similar stuff a documentation manual would
        have).  In addition to these files, there is one directory for
        each chapter created inside the manual.  Inside each chapter
        directory, you'll found the files controlling the section
        definitions related to that chapter they belong to.  The
        section files (a.k.a.  <quote>documentation entries</quote>)
        are suffixed with a <filename
        class="extension">texinfo</filename> extension and named
        arbitrarily, as it is illustrated in <xref
        linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-structure-example1" />.
        Inside section files it is where you write the manual's
        content itself.
    </para>
    
    <example id="manuals-formats-texinfo-structure-example1">
    <title>Texinfo document structure</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo document structure</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>trunk/Manuals/${MANUAL_NAME}
`-- ${LANG}
    |-- ${CHAPTER_NAME}
    |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter.texinfo
    |   `-- ${SECTION_NAME}.texinfo
    |-- Licenses
    |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
    |   `-- chapter.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}.conf
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-index.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-menu.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-nodes.texinfo
    `-- ${MANUAL_NAME}.texinfo</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

    <para>
        In this document structure, the creation of documentation
        manuals, chapters and sections is not limitted. You can create
        as many documenation manuals, chapters and sections as you
        need. The only limitation would be the amount of free space
        required to store the Texinfo source files and the output
        files produced from them.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="manuals-formats-texinfo-templates">
    <title>Document Templates</title>
    <para>
        Texinfo document templates provide the initial state the
        <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script needs in order to
        create and maintain document structures, as that one described
        in <xref linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-structure" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        Texinfo document templates are language-specific. This means
        that there is (or, at least, must be) one Texinfo document
        template for each language you plan to support documentation
        manuals for. By default, &TCAR; provides a default Texinfo
        document template under <filename class="directory">en_US</filename>
        directory. This template structure is used when your current
        locale is English language or when you are creating/editing a
        documentation manual in a language other than English, but no
        language-specific document template for that language exists
        in the directory:
    </para>

    <screen>
trunk/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates</screen>

    <para>
        This directory organizes all Texinfo document templates using
        the format LL_CC, where LL is the language code (as in
        ISO-639) and CC the country code (as in ISO-3166). The
        directory structure of Texinfo document templates is
        illustrated in the <xref
        linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-templates-example1" /> and
        implemented through the following files:
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside the language-specific directory
        and contains the manual's main definitions (e.g., document
        title, document language, document authors, copyright notice,
        etc.). 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual-menu.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside the language-specific directory
        and contains the menu definitions of chapters inside the
        manual. Menu definitions in this file are automatically
        updated when a new chapter is created or deleted through the
        <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.  Generally, you don't
        need to edit this file once the documentation manual has been
        created.
    </para>
    <para>
        When a documentation manual is created for first time, this
        file is copied from Texinfo document template directory
        structure to the documentation manual being currently created.
        At this specific moment, this file contains the following
        Texinfo menu definition:
    </para>

    <screen>@menu
* Licenses::
* Index::
@end menu</screen>

    <para>
        Later, when chapters are added to or deleted from the
        documentation manual, the content of this file varies adding
        or deleting menu entries accordingly.  Nevertheless, the two
        entries shown above are ignored when new chapters are added to
        or removed from the list, so they will always be present in
        this file. To preserve the manual consistency, the
        <function>help</function> functionality prevents you from
        deleting any of these chapters once the documentation manual
        has been created.
    </para>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual-nodes.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside the language-specific directory
        and contains the node definitions of all chapters inside the
        manual.  Node definitions in this file are automatically
        created based on menu definitions (see
        <filename>manual-menu.texinfo</filename> file above) and they
        don't include any content here.  Instead, as part of the node
        definition, the <code>@include</code> command is used to
        connect each node with its content.  Generally, you don't need
        to edit this file once the documentation manual has been
        created.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual-index.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside the language-specific directory
        and contains the Texinfo commands used to generated an
        organized view of all indexes you defined inside documentation
        entries so they can be quickly accessed. Generally, you don't
        need to edit this file once the documentation manual has been
        created.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual.conf</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file contains the initial configuration of documentation
        manuals written in Texinfo format. When a documentation manual
        is created for first time, this file is copied into its target
        directory so you be able of later customizing specific
        information like menu order, title styles and template
        assignments. The content of this file is described in <xref
        linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-configuration" />.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>chapter.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file contains the Texinfo's main chapter definition used
        by <function>help</function> functionality when new chapters
        are created inside documentation manuals. When chapters are
        created for first time, they come without any introduction or
        documentation entry inside. If you want to add/update any
        information inside the chapter definition itself, edit the
        related chapter file inside the documentation manual you are
        working on, not the template file used to create it.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>chapter-menu.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file is part of Texinfo's main chapter definition and
        should be initially empty. Later, when chapters are created
        for first time, this file is copied as it is (i.e., empty)
        into the documentation manual to store the Texinfo menu
        entries related to all documentation entries created inside
        the chapter. The Texinfo menu entries related to documentation
        entries are automatically created using Texinfo source files
        as reference.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>chapter-nodes.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file is part of Texinfo's main chapter definition and
        contains the node definition the <function>help</function>
        functionality uses as reference to create the list of Texinfo
        nodes related to all documentation entries created inside the
        chapter. The node definition of documentation entries is 
        automatically created from the menu definition of
        documentation entries (see
        <filename>chapter-menu.texinfo</filename> file above), once it
        has been updated from Texinfo source files.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>section.texinfo</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file contains the Texinfo section definition used by
        <function>help</function> functionality when new documentation
        entries are created inside the chapters of a documentation
        manual. When documentation entries are created for first time,
        they are created as empty documentation entries that you need
        to fill up with content.  Again, if you want to update the
        content of sections inside the documentation manual, update
        the related documentation entry inside the documentation
        manual, not the template file used to create it.
    </para>

    <para>
        The creation of documentation entries inside the documentation
        manual is represented by the
        <filename>${SECTION_NAME}.texinfo</filename> file, as
        described in <xref
        linkend="manuals-formats-texinfo-structure-example1" />. In
        this example, <code>${SECTION_NAME}</code> is a variable
        string refering the file name of documentaiton entries.
        The file names of documentation entries is made of letters,
        numbers and the minus sign (which is generally used to
        separate words).
    </para>

    <para>
        Documentation entries are not limited inside a documentation
        manual. You can create as many documentation entries as you
        need to describe the content of your manual.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
        
    <para>
        There are other files which aren't related to manual's source
        files, but to manual's output files. Such files are described
        below and can be found either inside or outside the
        language-specific directories so you can control common and
        specific output settings through them.  These files aren't
        copied into the directory structure of new documentation
        manuals created through the <function>help</function>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
        Instead, they remain inside the template directory structure
        so as to be reused each time the output of documentation
        manuals is rendered.
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual-init.pl</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside and outside language-specific
        directories and contains the Texi2html initialization script.
        When this file is outside the language-specific directory, it
        contains common customizations to all language-specific
        outputs (e.g., changing the output DTD).  When this file is
        inside the language-specific directory, it contains
        translations for that language-specific output (e.g., special
        words like See, Index, Contents, Top, etc., are localized
        here).
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename>manual.sed</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This file can be found inside and outside language-specific
        directories and contain special transformations for Texi2html
        output. Again, when this file is inside language-specific
        directories the transformation have are applied to that
        language-specific XHTML output and when it is outside
        language-specific directories the transformations are applied
        to all language-specific XHTML outputs.  Most transformations
        achived through this file are to produce admonitions since
        Texinfo documentation format (as in
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package>) doesn't have an
        internal command to build them.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
    
    <example id="manuals-formats-texinfo-templates-example1">
    <title>Texinfo document template</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo document template</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>trunk/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates
|-- ${LANG}
|   |-- Chapters
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter.texinfo
|   |   `-- section.texinfo
|   |-- Licenses
|   |   |-- GFDL.texinfo
|   |   |-- GPL.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   `-- chapter.texinfo
|   |-- manual-index.texinfo
|   |-- manual-init.pl
|   |-- manual-menu.texinfo
|   |-- manual-nodes.texinfo
|   |-- manual.conf
|   |-- manual.sed
|   `-- manual.texinfo
|-- manual-init.pl
`-- manual.sed</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

    <para>
        Inside the directory structure of Texinfo document templates,
        the <filename class="directory">Chapters</filename> directory
        organizes chapter specific models used to create and maintain
        both chapter and sections files inside manuals. On the other
        hand, the <filename class="directory">Licenses</filename>
        directory organizes the license information linked from all
        manuals.  Notice the license information is not copied into
        documentation manuals when they are created, but refered from
        this location where they are maintained.  This configuration
        permites that all documentation manuals written in Texinfo
        format inside &TCAR; do use the same license information and
        if a change is committed to the license files, such changes be
        immediatly propagated to documentation manuals the next time
        their output files be updated.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="manuals-formats-texinfo-macros">
    <title>Document Expansions</title>
    <para>
        The document expansions are special constructions used to
        generate content dynamically inside Texinfo source files.
    </para>

    <sect3>
    <title>The <code>SeeAlso</code> Expansion</title>

    <para>
        This expansion creates a list of links with section entries
        one level ahead from the section entry being currently
        processed.  In this construction, the TYPE variable can be
        either <quote>itemize</quote>, <quote>enumerate</quote> or
        <quote>menu</quote>. When no TYPE variable is provided, the
        <quote>itemize</quote> value is considered as default.
    </para>

    <screen>@c -- &lt;[centos-art(SeeAlso,TYPE)
@c -- ]&gt;</screen>

    <para>
        This expansion might result useful when you are documenting
        the repository file system. For example, if you are currently
        editing the documentation entry related to <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename> directory and want
        to create a linkable list of all documentation entries in the
        first level under it, the code you'll have once the
        construction be expanded would look like the following:
    </para>

<screen>
@c -- &lt;[centos-art(SeeAlso)
@itemize
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Brushes}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Fonts}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Images}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Models}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Palettes}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Patterns}
@item @ref{Trunk Identity Webenv}
@end itemize
@c -- ]&gt;
</screen>

    <para>
        An interesting thing to notice here is that document
        expansions are executed each time the related documentation
        entry is edited or updated. Following with the example above,
        if the documentation entries related to directories under
        <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename> changes
        for some reason (e.g., they are removed from documentation
        manual), the list generated as result of document expansion
        will be updated automatically after editing the documentation
        entry or updating the documentation manual structure.
    </para>

    </sect3>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="manuals-formats-texinfo-configuration">
    <title>Document Configuration</title>
    <para>
        The document configuration is stored in the 
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}.conf</filename> file, inside the
        documentation manual directory structure. This file is
        originally copied from <filename>manual.conf</filename>
        template file when the documentation manual is created for
        first time. The content of
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}.conf</filename> file is organized in
        sections. Each section here is written in one line of its own
        and have the form <code>[section_name]</code>. Under sections,
        the configuration settings take place through
        <code>name="value"</code> pairs set in one line each.  Notice
        that quotation marks around the option_value are required.
        Comments are also possible using the <code>#</code> character
        at the begining of lines.  Comments and empty lines (including
        tabs and white spaces) are ignored. In case more than one
        section or option appear with the same name inside the
        configuration file, the first one found will be used. Nested
        section definitions are not supported.
    </para>

    <screen>[section_name]
# This is a comment.
option_name = "option_value"</screen>

    <para>
        The <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}.conf</filename> file is specific
        to document templates. If you are using Texinfo document
        template to create documentation manuals, then the default
        configuration file for that documentation manual is taken from
        Texinfo document template directory structure. However, if you
        are using a document template different to Texinfo document
        template, the default configuration file will be taken from
        the related document template directory structure you are
        creating the documentation manual from.
    </para>

    <sect3>
    <title>The <code>[main]</code> Section</title>
    <para>
        The <code>[main]</code> section organizes settings that let
        you customize the way sections and menu definitions are
        created inside the documentation manual. The following options
        are available in this section:
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><code>manual_format</code></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This option specifies the documentation format used by manual.
        To write documentation manuals in Texinfo format, the value
        of this option must always be:
    </para>
    <screen>manual_format = "texinfo"</screen>
    <caution>
    <para>
        Once the documentation manual has been created, you must not
        change the value of <option>manual_format</option> option.
        This will produce an error.
    </para>
    </caution>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><code>manual_section_style</code></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This option specifies the title style used by sections inside
        the manual.  Possible values to this option are
        `cap-each-word' to capitalize each word in the section title,
        `cap-first-word' to capitalize the first word in the section
        title only and `directory' to transform each word in the
        section title into a directory path. From all these options,
        `cap-each-word' is the one used as default.
    </para>
    <screen>manual_section_style = "cap-each-word"</screen>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><code>manual_section_order</code></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This option specifies the order used by sections inside the
        manual. By default new sections added to the manual are put on
        the end to follow the section order in which they were
        `created'. Other possible values to this option are `ordered'
        and `reversed' to sort the list of sections alphabetically
        from A-Z and Z-A, respectively.
    </para>
    <screen>manual_section_order = "created"</screen>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
    </sect3>

    <sect3>
    <title>The <code>[templates]</code> Section</title>
    <para>
        The <code>[templates]</code> section provides the assignment
        relation between template files and documentation entry files
        inside the manual. The template definition is set on the left
        side using relative path and the documentation entry files are
        described on the right side using a regular expression. The
        first match wins.
    </para>
    <screen>Chapters/section.texinfo = "^.+\.texinfo$"</screen>
    </sect3>
    
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="manuals-formats-texinfo-l10n">
    <title>Document Internationalization</title>
    <para>
        To produce localized documentation manuals through Texinfo
        documentation format it is necessary to create one
        documentation manual for each language it is desired to
        support documentation for.  Documentation manuals created in
        this configuration don't have a direct relation among
        themselves except that one adopted by people writting them to
        keep their content syncronized.  In this configuration
        translators take one documentation manual as reference (a.k.a.
        the source manual) and produce several translated manuals
        based on its content.  To keep track of changes inside the
        source manual, the underlaying version control system must be
        used considering that there is no direct way to apply
        <application>gettext</application><footnote>
        <para>
            The <application>gettext</application> program  translates
            a  natural language message into the user's language, by
            looking up the translation in a message catalog. For more
            information about the <application>gettext</application>
            program, run <command>info gettext</command>.
        </para>
        </footnote> procedures to Texinfo source files.
    </para>

    <para>
        In order to maintain localization of Texinfo source files
        through <application>gettext</application> procedures, it is
        necessary to convert the Texinfo source files into
        XML format first.  This way it would be possible to make use of
        <function>locale</function> and <function>render</function>
        functionalities from <command>centos-art.sh</command> script
        to maintain translation messages in different languages
        through portable objets and producing localized XML files
        based on such portable objects, respectively.  Once the
        localized XML file is available, it would be a matter of using
        an XSLT processor (see the <command>xsltproc</command>
        command) to realize the convertion from XML to a localize
        Texinfo (or possible other) format.  Nevertheless, this
        workaround fails because the Document Type Definition (DTD)
        required to validate the XML file produced from
        <command>makeinfo</command> (as in
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package>) is not availabe inside
        &TCD; (release 5.5), nor it is the XSLT files required to
        realize the transformation itself for such DTD.
    </para>

    <para>
        Another similar approach to maintain localization of Texinfo
        source files through <application>gettext</application>
        procedures would be to convert Texinfo source file to DocBook
        format; for who the required DTD and XSLT files are available
        inside &TCD;.  This way, following a procedure similar to that
        one describe for XML files above, it would be possible to end
        up having localized DocBook files that can be used as source
        to produce localized output for both online and printing
        media.  However, the DocBook output produced from
        <command>makeinfo</command> command (as in
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package>) isn't a valid DocBook
        document according to DocBook DTDs available inside &TCD;
        (release 5.5) thus provoking the validation and transformation
        of such a malformed document to fail.
    </para>

    <sect3 id="manuals-texinfo-l10n-language">
    <title>Document Language</title>
    <para>
        The language information of those documentation manuals
        produced through Texinfo documentation format is declared by
        Texinfo's <code>@documentlanguage</code> command.  This
        command receives one argument refering the language code (as
        in ISO-639 standard) and must be set inside the manual's main
        definition file. Generally, there is no need to change the
        document language declaration once it has been created by the
        <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script; unless you
        mistakently create the manual for a locale code different to
        that one you previously pretended to do in first place, of
        course.
    </para>

    <para>
        The language information used in both Texinfo source files and
        XHTML output produced by the <function>help</function>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script is
        determined by the user's session <envar>LANG</envar>
        environment variable.  This variable can be customized in the
        graphical login screen before login, or once you've login by
        explicitly setting the value of <envar>LANG</envar>
        environment variable inside the
        <filename>~/.bash_profile</filename> file. 
    </para>

    <tip>
    <para>
        To create documentation manuals in English language the
        <envar>LANG</envar> environment variable must be set to
        <code>en_US.UTF-8</code> or something similar.  Likewise, if
        you want to create documentation manuals in a language other
        than English, be sure the <envar>LANG</envar> environment
        variable is set to the appropriate locale code.<footnote> 
        <para>
            The appropriate locale code to set here can be found in
            the output produced by the <command>locale -a |
            less</command> command.
        </para></footnote>
    </para>
    </tip>
     
    <para>
        When producing output from Texinfo source files using the
        <command>makeinfo</command> command (as in the
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package> package), the language
        information set by <code>@documentlanguage</code> is ignored
        in Info and HTML output, but cosidered by Tex program to
        redefine various English words used in the PDF output (e.g.,
        <quote>Chapter</quote>, <quote>Index</quote>,
        <quote>See</quote>, and so on) based on the current language
        set in.
    </para>

    </sect3>
    
    <sect3 id="manuals-texinfo-l10n-encoding">
    <title>Document Encoding</title>
    <para>
        The encoding information of documentation manuals produced
        through Texinfo documentation format is declared by Texinfo's
        <code>@documentencoding</code> command and can take either
        <code>US-ASCII</code>, <code>ISO-8859-1</code>,
        <code>ISO-8859-15</code> or <code>ISO-8859-2</code> as
        argument.  Nevertheless, you should be aware that the
        <code>help</code> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script doesn't declare the
        <code>@documentencoding</code> inside Texinfo source files.
        Let's see why.
    </para>

    <para>
        When the <code>@documentencoding</code> command is set in
        Texinfo source files, the terminal encoding you use to read
        the Info output produced from such files must be set to that
        encoding information you provided as argument to
        <code>@documentencoding</code> command; this, before using an
        Info reader to open the Info output file in the terminal.
        Otherwise, when the terminal and the Texinfo source files
        encoding definition differ one another, characters defined
        through Texinfo's special way of producing floating accents
        won't be displayed as expected (even when the
        <option>--enable-encoding</option> is provided to
        <command>makeinfo</command> command). On the other hand, when
        the <code>@documentencoding</code> command is not set in
        Texinfo source files, it is possible to write and read
        documentation manuals using the UTF-8 encoding without needing
        to use Texinfo's special way of producing floating accents
        because the terminal encoding would be able to interpret the
        characters entered when the Texinfo source files were written
        in first place.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        When Texinfo's special way of producing floating accents isn't
        used, HTML entities are not produced in XHTML output produced
        by <command>texi2html</command>, nor in the HTML output
        produced by <command>makeinfo</command>, nor in PDF output.
        In this last case, when producing PDF output, you can realize
        what the floating accents are by trying to produce an
        accentuated Spanish <code>i</code> letter (e.g.,
        <code>í</code>). When you do so, you'll note that that
        construction puts the accentuation mark
        <emphasis>over</emphasis> the <code>i</code> letter's dot,
        instead of removing the <code>i</code> letter's dot and
        put the accentuation mark on its place.  In the case of XHTML
        output, however, it possible to produce well localized XHTML
        output by setting
    </para>

    <screen>&lt;meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /&gt;</screen>

    <para>
        on the head section of each XHTML output to instruct the web
        browsers what encoding to use to display the document content.
        Of course, in order to display the document content correctly,
        the web browser should provide support for UTF-8 encoding.
    </para>

    <para>
        These contradictions provide the reasons over which it was
        decided not to set the <code>@documentencoding</code> in those
        Texinfo source files produced by the <code>help</code>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. Now,
        considering them, we can conclude that it is no viable way to
        localize Texinfo source files through
        <application>gettext</application> procedures so one
        documentation manual must be created for each language we
        desire to support documentation for. In this configuration,
        it is difficult the production of well localized PDF output,
        but it is possible to produce well localized Info, Text, and
        XHTML outputs as long as no document encoding be explicitly
        set inside Texinfo source files and UTF-8 be used as default
        terminal character encoding.
    </para>

    </sect3>

    </sect2>

</sect1>

