<sect1 id="configurations-dialup-client">

    <title>The Client Computer</title>

    <sect2 id="configurations-dialup-client-install">
    <title>Installing Client Computer</title>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="configurations-dialup-client-config">
    <title>Configuring Client Computer</title>

    <para>
        ...
    </para>

    <sect3 id="configurations-dialup-client-config-conn">
    <title>Establishing Dial-Up Connection</title>

    <para>
        To establish connection from the client computer to the server
        computer you should configure the client computer to dial-up
        the server computer, using the following information:
    </para>

<screen>
 ISP Name: server.example.com
ISP Phone: +53043515094
 Username: client.example.com
 Password: mail4u
</screen>

    <para>
        To estabalish a dial-up connection from the client computer to
        the server computer, you need to determine the modem location
        assigned by the operating system, so you can instruct
        applications like <command>system-config-network</command> the
        correct device they will to talk to. This configuration
        process has been greatly simplified by the
        <command>wvdialconf</command> command distributed with the
        <package>wvdial</package>
        package. To do this, run the following command and pay
        attention to the three last lines of its output:
    </para>

    <screen>wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf</screen>

<screen>
Scanning your serial ports for a modem.

ttyS0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
Port Scan&lt;*1&gt;: S1   S2   S3   
WvModem&lt;*1&gt;: Cannot get information for serial port.
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 &amp;D2 -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 &amp;D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Modem Identifier: ATI -- LT V.90 1.0 MT5634ZBA-USB
Data/Fax Modem (Dual Config) Version 5.18e
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 230400: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Speed 460800: AT -- OK
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: Max speed is 460800; that should be safe.
ttyACM0&lt;*1&gt;: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 &amp;D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK

Found an USB modem on /dev/ttyACM0.
Modem configuration written to /etc/wvdial.conf.
ttyACM0&lt;Info&gt;: Speed 460800; init "ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 &amp;D2 +FCLASS=0"
</screen>

    <para>
        Now, using this information, configure a Modem connection
        using the interface provided by
        <command>system-config-network</command> command. Take care of
        replacing the <filename>/dev/modem</filename> device name by
        that one found by <command>wvdialconf</command> (e.g., in the
        output above would be <filename>/dev/ttyACM0</filename>). At
        this point, you can use the button Activate from
        <command>system-config-network</command> to establish the
        Modem connection you previously configured.
    </para>
 
    </sect3>
    </sect2>

</sect1>

