<sect1 id="manuals-texinfo-structure">

    <title>Document structure</title>

    <para>
        Based on the fact that there is only one repository directory
        structure to document, there is only one documentation manual
        structure based on Texinfo documentation backend to maintain,
        for each language we want to provide support.
    </para>

    <para>
        Each language-specific documentation structure based on
        Texinfo documentation backend is stored in the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals/Repository</filename>
        directory. Inside this location, we use the file
        <filename>repository-init.pl</filename>,
        <filename>repository.css</filename> and
        <filename>repository.sed</filename> to control common
        characteristics of all language-specific document structures
        (e.g., common initialization of <command>texi2html</command>
        as well as common visual styles and transformations applied to
        final XHTML output).
    </para>

    <example id="manuals-texinfo-structure-fig1">
    <title>Texinfo document structure.</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo document structure.</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>trunk/Manuals/Repository
|-- $LANG
|   |-- Directories
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter.texinfo
|   |   |-- trunk/Identity.texinfo
|   |   `-- trunk.texinfo
|   |-- Introduction
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter.texinfo
|   |   `-- history.texinfo
|   |-- Licenses
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   `-- chapter.texinfo
|   |-- repository-index.texinfo
|   |-- repository-menu.texinfo
|   |-- repository-nodes.texinfo
|   `-- repository.texinfo
|-- repository-init.pl
|-- repository.css
`-- repository.sed</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

    <para>
        Inside each language-specific directory, we have the <filename
        class="directory">Introduction</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">Directories</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">Licenses</filename> directories to cover
        manual's introduction, documentation of repository directories
        and license information.  In addition to these directories, we
        also have the <filename>repository.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>repository-index.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>repository-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>repository-nodes.texinfo</filename> files to make up
        the manual's main structure (e.g., title, copyright notice,
        chapters, appendixes, indexes and all the similar stuff a
        documentation manual should have).
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside chapter directories, we have at least the files
        <filename>chapter.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>chapter-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>chapter-nodes.texinfo</filename> to control section
        definitions inside the chapter. In addition to these files, we
        have documentation entries to store the information itself.
    </para>
            
    <para>
        Inside <filename class="directory">Introduction</filename>
        directory, documentation entries are managed without any
        functionality's help, you need to take care of them by your
        own.
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside <filename class="directory">Directories</filename>
        directory, documentation entries are all managed by the
        <function>help</function> functionality and you don't need to
        take care of them. To manage documentation entries here you
        need to use the <function>help</function> functionality as
        described in <xref linkend="scripts-bash-help" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside <filename class="directory">Licenses</filename>
        directory, there aren't documentation entries. Instead, they
        are imported from <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Scripts/Functions/Help/Templates/$LANG/Licenses/</filename>
        directory.  We did it this way to reuse license files when
        different language-specific document structures, based on
        Texinfo documentation backend, are created for first time.
        There is no need to duplicate the license files inside each
        language-specific document structure if they can be placed in
        a single location and then be imported to reduce the amount of
        files in need of maintainance.
    </para>

</sect1>
