@node Trunk Identity Images Brands Logos
@section @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos}
@cindex Trunk identity images brands logos

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos} exists to organize
images related to The CentOS Logos, in different formats (e.g., PNG,
JPG, PDF, TIF, XBM, XPM) and dimensions. 

The CentOS Logo is a construction made of The CentOS Symbol and The
CentOS Type. The CentOS Symbol and The CentOS Logo are the main visual
manifestations of the organization known as @value{TCPROJ}.  As The
CentOS Symbol, The CentOS Logo is used to ``brand'' images produced by
@value{TCPROJ} and provide a visual connection between images so they
can be monolithically recognized as part of @value{TCPROJ}. The CentOS
Logo must be exactly the same everytime it is printed out and a route
to reproduce it in such a way must be available so as to avoid
reproduction mistakes when images are branded with it.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos} directory and the files
inside it aren't under version control.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos} directory contains files
used by the @file{redhat-logos} package, specifically the files inside
the @file{/usr/share/pixmaps/redhat} directory.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos} directory organizes
files under directories numerically named (e.g., @file{48}, @file{64},
@file{128}, etc.).  Inside these directories, image files are stored
in specific heights and named as
@file{centos-<something>.<extension>}, where @code{<somthing>}
describes the file content and @code{<extension>} sets the file
extension. In all cases, the directory name can be used as reference
to determine the image height of files stored inside.  For example,
the directory @file{48} stores image files of 48 pixels height in
different formats.

Content rendition inside @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos}
directory takes place through the following command:

@verbatim
centos-art render trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Logos --dont-commit-changes
@end verbatim
