@node Trunk Identity Images Brands Types
@section @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Types}
@cindex Trunk identity images brands types

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols} exists to organize
images related to The CentOS Symbol, in different formats (e.g., PNG,
JPG, PDF, TIF, XBM, XPM) and dimensions. 

The CentOS Symbol is the graphical part of The CentOS Logo. As The
CentOS Logo, The CentOS Symbol is used to ``brand'' images produced by
@value{TCPROJ} and provide a visual connection between images so they
can be monolithically recognized as part of @value{TCPROJ}. The CentOS
Symbol must be exactly the same everytime it is printed out and a
route to reproduce it in such a way must be available so as to avoid
reproduction mistakes when images are branded with it.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols} directory and the files
inside it aren't under version control.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols} directory contains
files used by the @file{redhat-logos} package, specifically the files
inside the @file{/usr/share/pixmaps/redhat} directory.

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols} directory organizes
files under directories numerically named (e.g., @file{48}, @file{64},
@file{128}, etc.).  Inside these directories, image files are stored
in specific heights and named as
@file{centos-<something>.<extension>}, where @code{<somthing>}
describes the file content and @code{<extension>} sets the file
extension. In all cases, the directory name can be used as reference
to determine the image height of files stored inside.  For example,
the directory @file{48} stores image files of 48 pixels height in
different formats.

Content rendition inside @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols}
directory takes place through the following command:

@verbatim
centos-art render trunk/Identity/Images/Brands/Symbols --dont-commit-changes
@end verbatim
