@node Trunk Scripts Functions
@section @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions}
@cindex Trunk scripts functions

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions} directory exists to organize common
and spectic functionalities related to the @command{centos-art.sh}
script. Common functionalities are loaded once the
@command{centos-art.sh} script is executed and made available for
sepecific functionalities to reuse.

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions} directory and all files inside it
are under version control.

Content rendition inside `trunk/Scripts/Functions' directory is not
supported.

Inside @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions} directory, specific
functionalities are organized in the following directories:

@c -- <[centos-art(SeeAlso)
@itemize
@item @ref{Trunk Scripts Functions Prepare}
@end itemize
@c -- ]>

Inside @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions} directory, common
functionalities are stored in files prefixed with the @samp{cli}
string as described below:

@defun cli "$@@"
The @code{cli} functionality initializes the command-line interface
(cli) of @command{centos-art.sh} script. This function evaluates the
first argument provided to @command{centos-art.sh} script and call the
specific functionality that respondes to it. The @code{cli} function
is directly called from @file{centos-art.sh} itself once global
variables are defined, working copy verification performed, common
functionalities exported into the execution environment, and signals
trapped. The @code{cli} function receives all positional parameters
passed to @command{centos-art.sh} as argument.

The @code{cli} function creates the a new environment inside that one
created by @command{centos-art.sh} script execution. Variables defined
herein will be avaialble to all specific functionalities and common
functionalities used inside specific functionalities.

@defvar FUNCNAM
The @var{FUNCNAM} variable stores the function name passed as first
argument to @command{centos-art.sh} script using the file convenction
specified by @code{cli_getRepoName} function.
@end defvar

@defvar FUNCDIR
The @var{FUNCDIR} variable stores the absolute path of directory
holding @command{centos-art.sh} script functions, both common and
specific.
@end defvar

@defvar FUNCDIRNAM
...
@end defvar

@defvar FUNCSCRIPT
...
@end defvar

@defvar ARGUMENTS
...
@end defvar
@end defun
