@node Trunk Scripts
@section @file{trunk/Scripts}
@cindex Trunk scripts

The @file{trunk/Scripts} directory exists to organize automation
scripts related to @value{TCPCVI}. Such automation scripts are
implemented through @command{centos-art.sh} script, a bash scripts
designed to automate most frequent tasks performed inside the working
copy of @value{TCAR} (e.g., image rendition, content documentation,
content translation, etc.).

The @file{trunk/Scripts} directory and all files inside it are under
version control. 

The @file{trunk/Scripts} directory contains just one file, the
@file{centos-art.sh} file. This file is the invocation script the
@command{centos-art} command calls to. In addition to
@file{centos-art.sh} file, the following directories are available:

@c -- <[centos-art(SeeAlso)
@itemize
@item @ref{Trunk Scripts Functions}
@end itemize
@c -- ]>

Content rendition inside @file{trunk/Scripts} is not supported.

Once the @command{centos-art.sh} script is executed, the following
variables are available all along the script execution:

@defvar CLI_PROGRAM
The @var{CLI_PROGRAM} variable is read-only and contains the name of
the script, which is @samp{centos-art}, without extension.
@end defvar

@defvar CLI_PROGRAM_ID
The @var{CLI_PROGRAM_ID} variable is read-only and contains the
process identification assigned to @command{centos-art.sh} script,
once executed.
@end defvar

@defvar CLI_VERSION
The @var{CLI_VERSION} variable is read-only and contains the version
number of @command{centos-art.sh} script.
@end defvar

@defvar CLI_BASEDIR
The @var{CLI_BASEDIR} variable is read-only and contains the absolute
path of directory where @command{centos-art.sh} script is stored in.
@end defvar

@defvar CLI_TEMPDIR
The @var{CLI_TEMPDIR} variable is read-only and contains the absolute
path of directory where temporal files created by
@command{centos-art.sh} script are stored in.
@end defvar

@defvar TEXTDOMAIN
The @var{TEXDOMAIN} variable is read-only and contains the name of the
program we are providing localization for (i.e., @samp{centos-art.sh}).
@end defvar

@defvar TEXTDOMAINDIR 
The @var{TEXTDOMAINDIR} variable is read-only and contains the
absolute path of directory holding localization messages for
@command{centos-art.sh}. In order for this variable to take effect,
its value must be set using the
@file{$@{BASEDIR@}/$@{LANG@}/LC_MESSAGES/$@{TEXDOMAIN@}} construction;
where @var{BASEDIR} is an absolute path inside your workstation,
@var{LANG} a language code based on the standards @samp{ISO-639} and
@samp{ISO-3166} (e.g., @samp{es_ES} for Spanish from Spain,
@samp{fr_FR} for French from France, etc.).
@end defvar
