@node Trunk Scripts Functions Prepare
@section @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare}
@cindex Trunk scripts functions prepare

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare} directory exists to
organize the @code{prepare} functionality of @command{centos-art.sh}
script.  The @code{prepare} functionality is written in Bash and its
main goal is to standardize the final configuration stuff your
workstation needs, once the working copy of @value{TCAR} has been
downloaded inside it. 

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare} directory and all files
inside it are under version control.

Content rendition inside @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare} is not
supported. 

Inside @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare} directory, file names
and function names share the same name convenction with the exception
that file names end with a @samp{.sh} suffix while function names
doesn't. Both, file names and function names, begin with
@samp{prepare_} prefix followed by a description of what the function
does.

Inside @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Prepare} directory, you can find
the following functions:

@defun prepare
The @code{prepare} (initialization) function creates the base
execution environment required to standardize final configuration
stuff needed by your workstation, once the working copy of
@value{TCAR} has been downloaded in it.
@end defun

@defun prepare_getOptions
The @code{prepare_getOptions} function parses command options provided
to @command{centos-art.sh} script when the first argument in the
command-line is the @samp{prepare} word. This function decides what
action to perform based on options provided. To parse options, this
function makes use of @command{getopt} program.
@end defun

@defun prepare_updateLinks
The @code{prepare_updateLinks} function updates the symbolic
link relation that connects your workstation with the files inside the
working copy of @value{TCAR}. This function makes brushes, palettes,
patterns and fonts inside the working copy available to programs like
GIMP and Inkscape installed in your workstation. 
@end defun

@defun prepare_updateImages
The @code{prepare_updateImages} function initializes image files
inside the working copy. This function makes a list of all design
models inside the working copy and renders them one by one to produces
the related output images.
@end defun

@defun prepare_updateManuals
The @code{prepare_updateManuals} function initializes
documentation files inside the working copy. This function makes a
list of all documentation manuals source files inside the working copy
and produces related output for them.
@end defun

@defun prepare_updatePackages
The @code{prepare_updatePackages} function verifies the required
packages your workstation needs to have installed in order for
@command{centos-art.sh} script to run correctly. If one or
more packages are uninstalled or out of date, the
@command{centos-art.sh} script asks you to confirm their
installation or actualization through the @command{sudo yum} command.
@end defun

@defun prepare_getEnvars
The @code{prepare_getEnvars} function outputs a brief description of
relevant environment variables the @command{centos-art.sh} script
makes use of.
@end defun

@defun prepare_getLinkName DIRECTORY, FILE
The @code{prepare_getLinkName} function takes a @var{DIRECTORY} path
as first argument and a @var{FILE} path as second argument to output a
file name with the path information that remains from substracting the
@var{DIRECTORY} path from the @var{FILE} path provided as argument.
@end defun

