<section id="preface-docconvs">

    <title>Document Convenctions</title>

    <para>
        In this manual, certain words are represented in different
        fonts, typefaces, sizes, and weights. This highlighting is
        systematic; different words are represented in the same style
        to indicate their inclusion in a specific category. The types
        of words that are represented this way include the
        following:
    </para>

    <variablelist>
        <varlistentry>
        <term><command>command</command></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Linux commands (and other operating system commands, when
            used) are represented this way.  This style should
            indicate to you that you can type the word or phrase on
            the command line and press <keycap>Enter</keycap> to
            invoke a command.  Sometimes a command contains words that
            would be displayed in a different style on their own (such
            as file names). In these cases, they are considered to be
            part of the command, so the entire phrase is displayed as
            a command.  For example:
        </para>

        <para>
            Use the <command>centos-art render
            trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/TreeFlower/4/Distro/5/Anaconda
            --filter="01-welcome"</command> command to produce the first
            slide image used by Anaconda in the branch 5 of &TCD;
            using the version 4 of TreeFlower artistic motif.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename>file name</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            File names, directory names, paths, and RPM package names
            are represented this way. This style indicates that a
            particular file or directory exists with that name on your
            system. Examples:
        </para>

        <para>
            The <filename>init.sh</filename> file in <filename
            class="directory">trunk/Scripts/Bash/Cli/</filename>
            directory is the initialization script, written in Bash,
            used to automate most of tasks in the repository.
        </para>

        <para>
            The <command>centos-art</command> command uses the
            <filename>ImageMagick</filename> RPM package to convert
            images from PNG format to other formats.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><keycap>key</keycap></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            A key on the keyboard is shown in this style.  For
            example:
        </para>

        <para>
            To use <keycap>Tab</keycap> completion to list particular
            files in a directory, type <command>ls</command>, then a
            character, and finally the <keycap>Tab</keycap> key. Your
            terminal displays the list of files in the working
            directory that begin with that character.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>key</keycap><keycap>combination</keycap></keycombo></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            A combination of keystrokes is represented in this way.
            For example: 
        </para>

        <para>
            The <keycombo
            action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Backspace</keycap></keycombo>
            key combination exits your graphical session and returns
            you to the graphical login screen or the console.
        </para> 
        </listitem> 
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><computeroutput>computer output</computeroutput></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Text in this style indicates text displayed to a shell
            prompt such as error messages and responses to commands.
            For example, the <command>ls</command> command displays
            the contents of a directory using this style:
        </para>

<screen>
render_doTranslation.sh     render_getDirTemplate.sh    render_doBaseActions.sh
render_getConfigOption.sh   render_getOptions.sh        render_doThemeActions.sh  
render_getDirOutput.sh      render.sh
</screen>

        <para>
            The output returned in response to the command (in this
            case, the contents of the directory) is shown in this
            style.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><prompt>prompt</prompt></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            A prompt, which is a computer's way of signifying that it
            is ready for you to input something, is shown in this
            style. Examples:
        </para>

        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <prompt>$</prompt>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <prompt>#</prompt>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <prompt>[centos@projects centos]$</prompt>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            <prompt>projects login:</prompt>
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><userinput>user input</userinput></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Text that the user types, either on the command line or
            into a text box on a GUI screen, is displayed in this
            style. In the following example,
            <userinput>text</userinput> is displayed in this style: To
            boot your system into the text based installation program,
            you must type in the <userinput>text</userinput> command
            at the <prompt>boot:</prompt> prompt.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><replaceable>replaceable</replaceable></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
           Text used in examples that is meant to be replaced with
           data provided by the user is displayed in this style. In
           the following example,
           <replaceable>version-number</replaceable> is displayed in
           this style: The directory for the kernel source is
           <filename
           class="directory">/usr/src/kernels/<replaceable>version-number</replaceable>/</filename>,
           where <replaceable>version-number</replaceable> is the
           version and type of kernel installed on this system. 
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <para>Additionally, we use several different strategies to draw
    your attention to certain pieces of information. In order of
    urgency, these items are marked as a note, tip, important,
    caution, or warning. For example:</para>

    <note>
        <para>Remember that Linux is case sensitive. In other words, a
        rose is not a ROSE is not a rOsE.</para>
    </note> 

    <tip>
        <para>The directory <filename
        class="directory">/usr/share/doc/</filename> contains
        additional documentation for packages installed on your
        system.</para>
    </tip>

    <important>
        <para>If you modify the DHCP configuration file, the changes
        do not take effect until you restart the DHCP daemon.</para>
    </important>

    <caution>
        <para>Do not perform routine tasks as root &mdash; use a
        regular user account unless you need to use the root account
        for system administration tasks.</para>
    </caution>

    <warning>
        <para>Be careful to remove only the necessary partitions.
        Removing other partitions could result in data loss or a
        corrupted system environment.</para>
    </warning>

</section>
