% Part   : Concepts
% Chapter: Frameworks
% ------------------------------------------------------------
% $Id: templates.tex 6207 2010-08-05 13:11:13Z al $
% ------------------------------------------------------------

\section{Design Templates}
\hypertarget{sec:Concepts:Frameworks:Templates}{}
\label{sec:Concepts:Frameworks:Templates}

Design templates are plain text files. Design templates may or may not
contain translation markers inside.  Design templates are used to
define the CentOS visual style (the look and feel) of CentOS corporate
identity in all its manifestations.  Design templates are the
documents you need to create or edit in order to implement or maintain
the monolithic CentOS corporate visual structure.  Design templates
are normative documents that need to be conceived carefully.

Design templates may be based on specific markups (i.e. XHTML, SVG,
CSS, etc.). If that is the case, translation markers may be combined
inside the specific markup design template to create a translatable
markup-specific design template. In contrast, if design templates do
not have specific markup inside, they are considered the simpliest
design templates because they only have translation markers inside.

Design templates can be read, edited, and studied using your favorite
text editor. 

Design templates are specific to frameworks using design patterns to
define the visual style of content produced inside them.  This is the
case of frameworks inside ``trunk/Identity/'', where design templates
are used to define images' visual style; and ``trunk/Translations/'',
where design tempates are used to define translations' common files.

Inside frameworks, design templates are stored in a directory named
`tpl'. This name is a convenction that scripts use to find framework's
design tempate files. If you want to change the design template
directory's name to something different from `tpl', you need to set
the same name in all design templates' directories along the CentOS
Artwork Repository, and update scripts to recognize the new name you
set.  This is something you problably don't need to do, but if you
still want to, please share your reasons in
\href{mailto:centos-devel@centos.org}{centos-devel@centos.org} before
commit your changes. Changing the design template directory's name is
a big chanage that needs to be discussed in the community.

\subsection{Simpliest Design Templates}

The simpliest design templates are inside identity frameworks. The
simpliest design tempaltes are plain text files with translation
markers only.  These kind of design templates are used to define
information like ``eula files'' (i.e trunk/Identity/Release/Tpl/eula)
used by Anaconda and similar files.  The simpliest design template
files do not use extension.

\subsection{Translation Design Templates} 

The translation design templates are inside translation frameworks.
The translation design templats are plain text documents whithout any
kind of markup.  Instead, they contain sed's replacements commands.
As convenction, translation file names end with the extension `.sed'.
Translation files are created and edited using your favorite text
editor.

\subsection{SVG Design Templates}

The scalar vector graphics (SVG) design templates are inside identity
frameworks.  The SVG design templates are plain text files with
markup, based on SVG standard. The SVG standard is described at
\href{http://www.w3.org/2000/svg}{http://www.w3.org/2000/svg}. 

Even SVG design templates can be read and edited with your favorite
text editor, it is better to use a SVG editor like
\href{http://www.inkscape.org/}{Inkscape} (see
http://www.inkscape.org/) to create and edit them. The SVG design
template files are used to define the visual style of images
controlling the visual style of CentOS distribution, CentOS web sites,
CentOS promotion, etc.

Inside SVG design templates, each object has an ``Id'' property.  By
default the object's Id is a combination of letters and numbers
granting its uniqueness inside the entire document.  

Inside CentOS Artwork Repository, SVG design templates are rendered
automatically using the \texttt{render.sh} identity script.  The
\texttt{render.sh} identity script looks for the object's Id property
containing the CENTOSARTWORK uppercase word and exports its area as
bitmap, automatically.

If you are designing SVG templates for CentOS Artwork Repository, and
you are using the \texttt{render.sh} identity script to render them,
you need to set the CENTOSARTWORK uppercase word as object's Id on the
design object you want to export as bitmap during the rendering
process. The CENTOSARTWORK uppercase word is a convenction used by
scripts to find the export area on your SVG design templates.

In CentOS Artwork Repository, SVG design templates are released under
the \href{http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/}{Creative
Common Share-Alike License 3.0}.\footnote{See
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/} In Inkscape, you say
so in the ``Document Metadata'' panel, available in the ``File'' menu.

\subsection{XHTML Design Templates} 

The XHTML design templates are inside identity frameworks. They are
plain text with markup, based on the
\href{http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1}{XHTML standard} described at
\href{http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1}{http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1}. These
files are created and edited using your favorite text editor.  XHTML
design templates are used to define the visual style of files like the
``Release Notes'' (trunk/Identity/Release/Tpl/release-notes.html) used
by Anaconda.

