<sect1 id="scripts-bash-help">

    <title>The <function>help</function> functionality</title>

    <para>
        The <function>help</function> functionality is the interface
        the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script provides to
        control frequent documentation tasks (e.g., reading, editing,
        update output files, etc.) requied by specific documentation
        backends.  Documentation backends supported by
        <function>help</function> functionality are described in <xref
        linkend="doc"/>.
    </para>

    <simplesect>

    <title>Synopsis</title>

        <para>
            <userinput>centos-art help [OPTIONS] path/to/dir &#8230;</userinput>
        </para>

        <para>
            The <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> parameter specifies
            the directory structure inside the working copy of The
            CentOS Artwork Repository you want to process the related
            documentation entry for. More than one directory structure
            can be passed as <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter>
            parameter.
        </para>

        <para>
            The <function>help</function> functionality accepts the
            following options:

            <variablelist>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--quiet</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Supress all output messages except error messages.
                When this option is passed, all confirmation requests
                are supressed as well and a possitive answer is
                assumed for them, just as if the
                <option>--answer-yes</option> option had been
                provided.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--answer-yes</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Assume <emphasis>yes</emphasis> to all confirmation requests.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--dont-commit-changes</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Supress all commit and update actions realized over
                files, before and after the action itself had took
                place over files in the working copy.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--backend="STRING"</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Specify <replaceable>STRING</replaceable> as
                default documentation backend to use. Possible
                arguments to this options are:
                <literal>texinfo</literal>
                or <literal>docbook</literal>. If this option is not
                provided, <literal>texinfo</literal> is used as
                default documentation backend.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--search="STRING"</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Go to node pointed by index entry <literal>STRING</literal>.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--edit</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Edit documentation entry related to path specified by
                <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> parameter.
            </para>
            <para>
                The <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> parameter must
                point to any directory inside the repository.  When
                more than one <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> are
                passed as non-option arguments to the
                <command>centos-art.sh</command> script command-line,
                they are queued for further edition.  The edition
                itself takes place through your default text editor
                (e.g., the one you specified in the
                <envar>EDITOR</envar> environment variable) and the
                text editor opens one file at time (i.e., the queue of
                files to edit is not loaded in the text editor.).
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--read</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Read documentation entry specified by
                <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> path.  This option
                is used internally by <command>centos-art.sh</command>
                script to print out the reference you can follow to
                know more about an error message.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--update</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Update output files rexporting them from the specified
                backend source files.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--copy</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Duplicate documentation entries inside the working
                copy of the repository.
            </para>
            <para>
                When documentation entries are copied, it is required
                to pass two non-option parameters in the command-line.
                The first non-option parameter is considered the
                source location and the second one the target
                location.  Both source location and target location
                must point to a directory under the working copy.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--delete</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Delete documentation entries specified by
                <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> inside the working
                copy. It is possible to delete more than one
                documentation entry by specifying more
                <parameter>path/to/dir</parameter> parameters in the
                command-line.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            <varlistentry>
            <term><option>--rename</option></term>
            <listitem>
            <para>
                Rename documentation entries inside the working copy.
            </para>
            <para>
                When documentation entries are renamed, it is required
                to pass only two non-option parameters to the
                command-line. The first non-option parameter is
                considered the source location and the second one the
                target location.  Both source location and target
                location must point to a directory under the working
                copy.
            </para>
            </listitem>
            </varlistentry>

            </variablelist>
        </para>

        <para>
            When documentation entries are removed (e.g., through
            <option>--delete</option> or <option>--rename</option>
            options), the <function>help</function> functionality
            takes care of updating nodes, menus and cross references
            related to documentation entries in order to keep the
            manual structure in a correct state.
        </para>

    </simplesect>

    <simplesect>

    <title>Examples</title>

    <para>
        <variablelist> 
        <varlistentry>
        <term><userinput>centos-art help --edit trunk/Identity</userinput></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This command edits the documentation entry related to
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename>
            directory inside the repository working copy.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><userinput>centos-art help --read trunk/Identity</userinput></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This command reads the documentation entry related to
            <filename class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename>
            directory inside the repository working copy.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        </variablelist> 
    </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect>

        <title>Author</title>

        <para>
            Written by Alain Reguera Delgado.
        </para>

    </simplesect>

    <simplesect>
        <title>Reporting bugs</title>
        <para>
            Report bugs to <ulink
            url="mailto:centos-artwork@centos.org">centos-artwork@centos.org</ulink>
            mailing list.
        </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect>
        <title>Copyright</title>
        <para>
            Copyright &copy; 2009, 2010, 2011 The CentOS Artwork SIG.
        </para>
        <para>
            This  is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it
            under the terms of the <xref linkend="licenses-gpl"/>.
            There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
        </para>
    </simplesect>

</sect1>
