@subsection Goals

The @file{trunk/} directory structure implements the Subversion's
trunk concept in a trunk, branches, tags repository structure.

@subsection Description

The @file{trunk/} directory structure is the main development line
inside the CentOS Artwork Repository and organizes the following
work lines:

@table @strong
@item Graphic design

The graphic design work line exists to cover brand design, typography
design and themes design mainly. Additionally, some auxiliar areas
like icon design, illustration design, brushes design, patterns
designs and palettes of colors are also included here for
completeness.

In this section you'll find how to organize and produce gaphic designs
in the repository. The graphic design work line is the perfect place
to consolidate @emph{The CentOS Artwork SIG}. If you are interested in
producing graphic designs for The CentOS Project, this place is for
you. 

@xref{Directories trunk Identity}, for more information.

@item Documentation

The documentation work line exists to describe what each directory
inside the CentOS Artwork Repository is for, the conceptual ideas
behind them and, if possible, how automation scripts make use of them.

In this section you'll find how to organize and produce the
@emph{CentOS Artwork Repository Manual} (i.e., the documentation
manual you're reading right now). If you are interested in producing
documentation for the repository, this place is for you.

@xref{Directories trunk Manual}, for more information.

@item Localization

The localization work line exists to provide the translation messages
required to produce content in different languages. Translation
messages inside the repository are stored as portable objects (e.g.,
.po, .pot) and machine objects (.mo) under @file{trunk/Locales}
directory structure.

In this section you'll find how to organize and produce translation
messages for @emph{graphic designs}, @emph{documentation} and
@emph{automation scripts} in the repository. This place is perfect to
consolidate @emph{The CentOS Translation SIG}. If you love
translating, you'll find lot of messages waiting for you to translate
here.  

@xref{Directories trunk Locales}, for more information.

@item Automation

The automation work line exists to standardize content production in
CentOS Artwork Repository. There is no need to type several tasks,
time after time, if they can be programmed into just one executable
script.

In this section you'll find how to organize and extend the
@command{centos-art.sh} script, a bash scripts specially designed to
automate most frequent tasks in the repository (e.g., image rendition,
documenting directory structures, translating content, etc.).  If you
can't resist the idea of automating repeatable tasks, then take a look
here.

@xref{Directories trunk Scripts}, for more information.
@end table

@subsection Usage

It seems to be no other use for this directory but to organize the
sections described above.

@subsection See also

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories branches}.
@item @xref{Directories tags}.
@item Subversion's book (@url{http://svnbook.red-bean.com/}).
@end itemize
