@subheading Goals

The @file{trunk/Manual} directory is the place where files related to
documentation work line are stored in.  The main goal of documentation
work line is to describe what each directory inside the CentOS Artwork
Repository is for, the conceptual ideas behind them and, if possible,
how automation scripts make use of them.

@subheading Description

The repository documentation manual is made of the following files:

@table @file

@item repository.css

This file controls the visual style for XHTML output files of
repository documentation manual.

@item repository-index.texi

This file controls the index definition for source files of repository
documentation manual.

@item repository.info.bz2

This file provides the Info output of repository documentation manual.

@item repository-init.pl

This file provides the initialization script of @command{texi2html},
the program used by @command{centos-art.sh} script to produce the
XHTML output of repository documentation manual.

@item repository-menu.texi

This file controls the menu definition of chapters for source files of
repository documentation manual.

@item repository-node.texi

This file controls the node definition of chapters for source files of
repository documentation manual.

@item repository.pdf

This file provides the PDF output of repository documentation manual.

@item repository.sed

This file provides post-transformations for XHTML output files. In
this file is where XHTML definitions for admonitions are set in.

@item repository.texi

This is the source file of repository documentation manual where
the manual structure initialization is set.
manual.

@item repository.txt.bz2

This file provides the TXT output of repository documentation manual.  

@item repository.xhtml.bz2

This file provides the XHTML output of repository documentation
manual.  

@item repository.xml

This file provides the XML output of repository documentation manual.  

@end table

The repository documentation manual is made of the following
directories:

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories trunk Manual Directories}.
@item @xref{Directories trunk Manual Introduction}.
@item @xref{Directories trunk Manual Licenses}.
@end itemize

@subheading Usage

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions Help}.
@end itemize

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Directories trunk}
@end itemize
