<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repository-usage-section-5" xreflabel="Connection between directories" label="3.5">

    <title>Connection between directories</title>

    <para>In order for automation scripts to produce content inside
    working copies of CentOS Artwork Repository, it is required that
    all work lines be connected somehow.  Using this connection,
    automation scripts can know where to retrive the information they
    need to work with (e.g., design model, translation messages,
    output locations, etc.).  This connection is built using two path
    constructions named <emphasis>master paths</emphasis> and
    <emphasis>auxiliar paths</emphasis>.</para>
    
    <para>The master path points only to directories that contain
    source files (e.g., SVG files) required to produce base content
    (e.g., PNG files) through automation scripts.  Each master path
    inside the repository may have several auxiliar paths associated,
    but auxiliar paths can only have one master path associated.
    Master paths are organized under <filename
    class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models</filename> directory
    structure and auxiliar paths under <filename
    class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images</filename>, <filename
    class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename> and <filename
    class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> directory
    structures.</para>
    
    <para>The auxiliar paths can point either to directories or files.
    When an auxiliar path points to a directory, that directory
    contains information that modifies somehow the content produced
    from master paths (e.g., translation messages) or provides the
    output information required to know where to store the content
    produced from master path.  When an auxiliar path points to a
    file, that file has no other purpose but to document the master
    path it refers to.</para>
    
    <para>The relationship between auxiliar paths and master paths is
    realized by combining the master path itself and the second level
    directory structures of the repository.  The master path is
    considered the path identifier and the second level directory
    structure taken from the repository is considered the common part
    of the path where the path identifier is appended to.</para>

</sect1>
