@subsection Goals

@itemize
@item Organize brands' translation files.
@end itemize

@subsection Description

Translation files, inside @file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands}
translation entry, don't use default rendering translation
functionality, they use the following translation pre-rendering
configuration file instead:

@verbatim
/home/centos/artwork/trunk/Translation/Identity/Brands/render.conf.sh
@end verbatim

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands} translation entry,
translation files are symbolic links pointing to the common template
translation structure, inside the translation template (@samp{Tpl/})
directory.

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands} translation entry,
translation files are created using identity design templates as
reference.  The translation pre-rendering script creates a translation
structure where the translation template (@samp{Tpl/}) directory
structure applies to each single design template available.

For example, if the brands' translation template (@samp{Tpl/})
directory has 30 translation files, and there are 20 design templates;
the brands' translation pre-rendering script creates a translation
structure of symbolic links where the 30 translation files apply the
20 design templates one by one, producing 600 translation symbolic
links as result. At this point, when rendering identity, the
@command{centos-art} script considers translation symbolic links as
translation files.

Translation file names, inside brands' translation template
(@samp{Tpl}) directory have special meaning:

@subsubsection Conventional file names
@cindex Translation brands file names

Convenctional file names look like @file{blue.sed}, @file{2c-a.sed},
etc.  Replacement commands inside translation file are applied to
design templates and translation file names are used as final image
name.  The image dimensions use the same dimensions that design
template has.

@subsubsection Numeric file names 
@cindex Translation brands file names

Numeric file names look like @file{300.sed}, @file{200.sed}, etc.
Replacements commands inside translation files are applied to design
templates, and translation file names are used as final image name.
The final image is saved using an specific @samp{width} defined by the
number part of the translation file name. The image @samp{height} is
automatically scaled based on the previous @samp{width} definition to
maintain the designing ratio.  

For example, if your design template has 400x200 pixels of dimension,
and you apply a translation file named `300.sed' to it, the final
image you get as result will have 300x100 pixels of dimension.   The
same is true if you use higher numbers like `1024.sed', `2048.sed',
etc. In these cases you have bigger images proportionally.

As we are using scalable vector graphics to design identity templates,
the image size you produce is not limitted in size. You can use one
design template produced in 400x200 pixels to produce larger or
shorter PNG images using numeric translation files as described
above.

@subsubsection Translation markers

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands/}, translation files
combine the following translation markers:

@table @samp
@item #000000

Specify which color to use when rendering brand images.

@quotation
@strong{Note} As translation files inside
@file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands} are symbolic links that
point to template translation files, translation markers are defined
inside template translation files.
@end quotation
@end table

@subsection Usage
@cindex How to render brands' translation files

To render brands' translation files, use the following command:

@verbatim
centos-art render --translation=/home/centos/artwork/trunk/Translations/Identity/Brands
@end verbatim

@subsection See also

@menu
@comment --- Removed(* Filesystem trunk Translations Identity Brands Tpl::) ---
* Filesystem trunk Identity Brands::
@end menu
