@subheading Goals

The @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Themes} directory exists to:

@itemize
@item Organize CentOS themes' artistic motifs. 
@end itemize 

@subheading Description

The artistic motif of theme is a graphic design component that
provides the visual style of themes, it is used as pattern to connect
all visual manifestations inside one unique theme.

Artistic motifs are based on conceptual ideas. Conceptual ideas bring
the motivation, they are fuel for the engines of human imagination.
Good conceptual ideas may produce good motivation to produce almost
anything, and art works don't escape from it.

@table @samp
@item TreeFlower 
CentOS like trees, has roots, trunk, branches, leaves and flowers. Day
by day they work together in freedom, ruled by the laws of nature and
open standards, to show the beauty of its existence.
@item Modern 
Modern, squares and circles flowing up.
@end table

If you have new conceptual ideas for CentOS, then you can say that you
want to create a new artistic motif for CentOS. To create a new
artistic motif you need to create a directory under
@file{Identity/Images/Themes/} using a name coherent with your
conceptual idea. That name will be the name of your artistic motif. If
possible, when creating new conceptual ideas for CentOS, think about
what CentOS means for you, what does it makes you feel, take your
time, think deep, and share; you can improve the idea as time goes on.

Once you have defined a name for your theme, you need to create the
motif structure of your theme. The motif structure is the basic
direcotry structure you'll use to work your ideas. Here is where you
organize your graphic design projects.

To add a new motif structure to CentOS Artwork Repository, you need to
use the @command{centos-art} command line in the
@file{Identity/Images/Themes/} directory as described below:

@example
centos-art add --motif=ThemeName
@end example

The previous command will create the basic structure of themes for
you.  The basic structure produced by @command{centos-art} command is
illustrated in the following figure:

@example
trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/$ThemeName/
|-- Backgrounds
|   |-- Img
|   `-- Tpl
|-- Info
|   |-- Img
|   `-- Tpl
|-- Palettes
`-- Screenshots
@end example

@subheading Usage

When designing artistic motifs for CentOS, consider the following
recommendations:

@itemize
@item Give a unique (case-sensitive) name to your Motif. This name is
used as value wherever theme variable (@b{$THEME}) or translation marker
(@b{=THEME=}) is.  Optionally, you can add a description about
inspiration and concepts behind your work.

@item Use the location @file{trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/$THEME/} to
store your work. If it doesn't exist create it. Note that this require
you to have previous commit access in CentOS Artwork Repository.

@item The CentOS Project is using the blue color (@b{#204c8d}) as base
color for its corporate visual identity. Use such base corporate color
information as much as possible in your artistic motif designs.

@item Try to make your design fit one of the theme models.

@item Feel free to make your art enterprise-level and beautiful.

@item Add the following information on your artwork (both in a visible
design area and document metadata):

@itemize

@item The name (or logo) of your artistic motif.

@item The copyright sentence: @b{Copyright (C) YEAR YOURNAME}

@item The license under which the work is released. All CentOS Art
works are released under
@url{http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/,Creative Common
Share-Alike License 3.0}
(@url{http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/}).

@end itemize
@end itemize

@subheading See also

@menu
* Directories trunk Identity Themes::
* Directories trunk Identity::
* Directories trunk::
@end menu

The @file{Backgrounds/} directory is used to organize artistic motif
background images and the projects used to build those images.

Background images are linked (using the @b{import} feature of
Inkscape) inside almost all theme art works. This structure let you
make centralized changes on the visual identity and propagate them
quickly to other areas. 

In this configuration you design background images for different
screen resolutions based on the theme artistic motif.

You may create different artistic motifs propositions based
on the same conceptual idea. The conceptual idea is what defines a
theme. Artistic motifs are interpretations of that idea.

Inside this directory artistic motifs are organized by name (e.g.,
TreeFlower, Modern, etc.).

Each artistic motif directory represents just one unique artistic
motif. 

The artistic motif is graphic design used as common pattern to connect
all visual manifestations inside one unique theme.  The artistic motif
is based on a conceptual idea.  Artistic motifs provide visual style
to themes.

Designing artistic motifs is for anyone interested in creating
beautiful themes for CentOS.  When building a theme for CentOS, the
first design you need to define is the artistic motif. 

Inside CentOS Artwork Repository, theme visual styles (a.k.a.,
artistic motifs) and theme visual structures (a.k.a., design models)
are two different working lines.  When you design an artistic motif
for CentOS you concentrate on its visual style, and eventualy, use the
@command{centos-art} command line interface to render the visual
style, you are currently producing, against an already-made theme
model in order to produce the final result.  Final images are stored
under @file{Motifs/} directory using the model name, and the model
directory structure as reference.

The artistic motif base structure is used by @command{centos-art} to
produce images automatically. This section describes each directory of
CentOS artistic motif base structure.

The @file{Backgrounds/} directory is probably the core component,
inside @file{Motifs/} directory structure.  Inside @file{Backgrounds/}
directory you produce background images used by almost all theme
models (e.g., Distribution, Websites, Promotion, etc.).  The
@file{Backgrounds/} directory can contain subdirectories to help you
organize the design process. 
