<sect1 id="manuals-texinfo-l10n">

    <title>Texinfo Document Internationalization</title>

    <para>
        To produce localized documentation manuals through texinfo
        documentation backend it is necessary to create one
        documentation manual for each language it is desired to
        support documentation for.  Documentation manuals created in
        this configuration don't have a direct relation among
        themselves except that one adopted by people writting them to
        keep their content syncronized.  In this configuration
        translators take one documentation manual as reference (a.k.a.
        the source manual) and produce several translated manuals
        based on its content.  To keep track of changes inside the
        source manual, the underlaying version control system must be
        used considering that there is no direct way to apply
        <application>gettext</application><footnote>
        <para>
            The <application>gettext</application> program  translates
            a  natural language message into the user's language, by
            looking up the translation in a message catalog. For more
            information about the <application>gettext</application>
            program, run <command>info gettext</command>.
        </para>
        </footnote> procedures to texinfo source files.
    </para>

    <para>
        In order to maintain localization of texinfo source files
        through <application>gettext</application> procedures, it is
        necessary to convert the texinfo source files into
        XML format first.  This way it would be possible to make use of
        <function>locale</function> and <function>render</function>
        functionalities from <command>centos-art.sh</command> script
        to maintain translation messages in different languages
        through portable objets and producing localized XML files
        based on such portable objects, respectively.  Once the
        localized XML file is available, it would be a matter of using
        an XSLT processor (see the <command>xsltproc</command>
        command) to realize the convertion from XML to a localize
        texinfo (or possible other) format.  Nevertheless, this
        workaround fails because the Document Type Definition (DTD)
        required to validate the XML file produced from
        <command>makeinfo</command> (as in
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package>) is not availabe inside
        &TCD; (release 5.5), nor it is the XSLT files required to
        realize the transformation itself for such DTD.
    </para>

    <para>
        Another similar approach to maintain localization of texinfo
        source files through <application>gettext</application>
        procedures would be to convert texinfo source file to DocBook
        format; for who the required DTD and XSLT files are available
        inside &TCD;.  This way, following a procedure similar to that
        one describe for XML files above, it would be possible to end
        up having localized DocBook files that can be used as source
        to produce localized output for both online and printing
        media.  However, the DocBook output produced from
        <command>makeinfo</command> command (as in
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package>) isn't a valid DocBook
        document according to DocBook DTDs available inside &TCD;
        (release 5.5) thus provoking the validation and transformation
        of such a malformed document to fail.
    </para>

    <sect2 id="manuals-texinfo-l10n-language">
    <title>Texinfo Document Language</title>
    <para>
        The language information of those documentation manuals
        produced through texinfo documentation backend is declared by
        texinfo's <code>@documentlanguage</code> command.  This
        command receives one argument refering the language code (as
        in ISO-639 standard) and must be set inside the manual's main
        definition file. Generally, there is no need to change the
        document language declaration once it has been created by the
        <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script; unless you
        mistakently create the manual for a locale code different to
        that one you previously pretended to do in first place, of
        course.
    </para>

    <para>
        The language information used in both texinfo source files and
        XHTML output produced by the <function>help</function>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script is
        determined by the user's session <envar>LANG</envar>
        environment variable.  This variable can be customized in the
        graphical login screen before login, or once you've login by
        explicitly setting the value of <envar>LANG</envar>
        environment variable inside the
        <filename>~/.bash_profile</filename> file. 
    </para>

    <tip>
    <para>
        To create documentation manuals in English language the
        <envar>LANG</envar> environment variable must be set to
        <code>en_US.UTF-8</code> or something similar.  Likewise, if
        you want to create documentation manuals in a language other
        than English, be sure the <envar>LANG</envar> environment
        variable is set to the appropriate locale code, based on the
        output of the <command>locale -a | less</command> command.
    </para>
    </tip>
     
    <para>
        When producing output from texinfo source files using the
        <command>makeinfo</command> command (as in the
        <package>texinfo-4.8-14.el5</package> package), the language
        information set by <code>@documentlanguage</code> is ignored
        in Info and HTML output, but cosidered by Tex program to
        redefine various English words used in the PDF output (e.g.,
        <quote>Chapter</quote>, <quote>Index</quote>,
        <quote>See</quote>, and so on) based on the current language
        set in.
    </para>

    </sect2>
    
    <sect2 id="manuals-texinfo-l10n-encoding">
    <title>Texinfo Document Encoding</title>
    <para>
        The encoding information of documentation manuals produced
        through texinfo documentation backend is declared by texinfo's
        <code>@documentencoding</code> command and can take either
        <code>US-ASCII</code>, <code>ISO-8859-1</code>,
        <code>ISO-8859-15</code> or <code>ISO-8859-2</code> as
        argument.  Nevertheless, you should be aware that the
        <code>help</code> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script doesn't declare the
        <code>@documentencoding</code> inside texinfo source files.
        Let's see why.
    </para>

    <para>
        When the <code>@documentencoding</code> command is set in
        texinfo source files, the terminal encoding you use to read
        the Info output produced from such files must be set to that
        encoding information you provided as argument to
        <code>@documentencoding</code> command; this, before using an
        Info reader to open the Info output file in the terminal.
        Otherwise, when the terminal and the texinfo source files
        encoding definition differ one another, characters defined
        through texinfo's special way of producing floating accents
        won't be displayed as expected (even when the
        <option>--enable-encoding</option> is provided to
        <command>makeinfo</command> command). On the other hand, when
        the <code>@documentencoding</code> command is not set in
        texinfo source files, it is possible to write and read
        documentation manuals using the UTF-8 encoding without needing
        to use texinfo's special way of producing floating accents
        because the terminal encoding would be able to interpret the
        characters entered when the texinfo source files were written
        in first place.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        When texinfo's special way of producing floating accents isn't
        used, HTML entities are not produced in XHTML output produced
        by <command>texi2html</command>, nor in the HTML output
        produced by <command>makeinfo</command>, nor in PDF output.
        In this last case, when producing PDF output, you can realize
        what the floating accents are by trying to produce an
        accentuated Spanish <code>i</code> letter (e.g.,
        <code>í</code>). When you do so, you'll note that that
        construction puts the accentuation mark
        <emphasis>over</emphasis> the <code>i</code> letter's dot,
        instead of removing the <code>i</code> letter's dot and
        put the accentuation mark on its place.  In the case of XHTML
        output, however, it possible to produce well localized XHTML
        output by setting
    </para>

    <screen>&lt;meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" /&gt;</screen>

    <para>
        on the head section of each XHTML output to instruct the web
        browsers what encoding to use to display the document content.
        Of course, in order to display the document content correctly,
        the web browser should provide support for UTF-8 encoding.
    </para>

    <para>
        These contradictions provide the reasons over which it was
        decided not to set the <code>@documentencoding</code> in
        texinfo source files produced by the <code>help</code>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. Now,
        considering them, we can conclude that it is difficult to
        produce well localized PDF output through texinfo
        documentation backend while it is possible to produce well
        localized Info, Text, and XHTML outputs through it.
    </para>

    </sect2>

</sect1>
