<sect1 id="manuals-texinfo-structure">

    <title>Texinfo Document Structure</title>

    <para>
        The document structure provided by texinfo backend creates the
        organization needed to make documentation manuals scalable and
        maintainable through time. Structuring considerations follow
        the idea of an upside-down tree to organize chapters,
        sections, subsections, and the like. The document initiates
        with a Top node which contains manual's main definitions
        (e.g., title, copyright note, abstract, and the list of
        chapters).  Inside each chapter the information is logically
        organized in sections, subsections and subsubsections.
    </para>

    <para> 
        The first time the documentation structure is created through
        texinfo backend, the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script
        considers the working directory you are placed in order to
        determine where to store the documentation manual source
        files.  When the current working directory is <filename
        class="directory">branches/Manuals/Texinfo</filename>, the
        documentation manual directory is created therein.  On all
        other situations, the documentation manual directory is
        created under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> directory.  Once
        the documentation manual directory has been created, the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script creates the related
        definition files in conjuction with an appendix named
        <quote>Licenses</quote>.  The content stored in the Licenses
        appendix isn't inside the documentation manual directory
        itself, but refered from texinfo document templates as
        described in <xref linkend="manuals-texinfo-templates" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        Inside the documentation manual directory, source files are
        all stored inside language-specific directories.
        Language-specific directories are necessary to implement
        localization of source files written in texinfo format, as
        described in <xref linkend="manuals-texinfo-l10n" />.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Inside the language-specific directory, the
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}-index.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>${MANUAL_NAME}-nodes.texinfo</filename> files exist to
        set manual's main definitions (e.g., title, subtitle, author,
        copyright notice, chapters, appendixes, indexes and all the
        similar stuff a documentation manual should have).  In
        addition to these files, there is one directory for each
        chapter created inside the manual. Inside each chapter
        directory, the <filename>chapter.texinfo</filename>,
        <filename>chapter-menu.texinfo</filename> and
        <filename>chapter-nodes.texinfo</filename> files exist to
        control section definitions related to the chapter directory
        they belong to.  The documentation manual content itself is
        stored in section files (a.k.a. <quote>documentation
        entries</quote>) suffixed with <filename
        class="extension">texinfo</filename> extension and arbitrary
        names, as it is displayed in <xref
        linkend="manuals-texinfo-structure-1" />.
    </para>

    <example id="manuals-texinfo-structure-1">
    <title>Texinfo document structure</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo document structure</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>trunk/Manuals/${MANUAL_NAME}
`-- ${LANG}
    |-- ${CHAPTER_NAME}
    |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter.texinfo
    |   `-- ${SECTION_NAME}.texinfo
    |-- Licenses
    |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
    |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
    |   `-- chapter.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-index.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-menu.texinfo
    |-- ${MANUAL_NAME}-nodes.texinfo
    `-- ${MANUAL_NAME}.texinfo</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

</sect1>
