<sect1 id="manuals-texinfo-templates">

    <title>Texinfo Document Templates</title>

    <para>
        Texinfo document templates provide the texinfo document design
        model that <command>centos-art.sh</command> script needs in
        order to create and maintain texinfo document structures like
        that one described in <xref
        linkend="manuals-texinfo-structure" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        Texinfo document templates are language-specific. This means
        that there is one texinfo document template for each language
        you want to write documentation manuals in texinfo format.
        Using one texinfo document template for each leanguage is
        required because, in texinfo format, it is not possible to
        retrive translatable strings from source files so translators
        can localize documentation source files to other languages,
        independently from documentors.  To create documentation
        manuals in different languages, it is required to write a
        complete texinfo document structure for each language you plan
        to write one documentation manual for; or what might be the
        same, to duplicate the source documenation manual you want to
        translate and do the translation inside the source files
        themselves. This way, in order for the <code>help</code>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to
        support creation and maintainance of documentation manual in
        different languages, it is necessary that one texinfo document
        template be available for each language you pretend to
        support.
    </para>

    <para>
        In order to create multilingual texinfo document templates,
        you can duplicate the texinfo document template used to build
        documentation manuals in English language from <filename
        class="directory">branches/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates/en_US</filename>
        to a new directory at the same directory level and using the
        language and country codification described  in the standards
        iso-639 and iso-3166, respectively. Once the directory has
        been duplicated, get into it and localize all the files
        inside it. At this point, after localizing files, the recently
        created language-specific texinfo document template is ready
        for production.
    </para>

    <note>
    <para>
        When you write documentation manuals for a language that
        doesn't have a language-specific texinfo document template,
        then the texinfo document template written in English language
        is used for that document.
    </para>
    </note>

    <para>
        The directory structure used to organize texinfo document
        templates take place under <filename
        class="directory">branches/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates</filename>
        directory, as displayed in <xref
        linkend="manuals-texinfo-templates-1" />. In this structure,
        files suffixed with <filename
        class="extension">.texinfo</filename> extension exists to
        modelate manual's source files. However, other files like
        <filename>manual-ini.pl</filename>,
        <filename>manual.sed</filename> and
        <filename>manual.conf</filename> aren't related to manual's
        source files, but to manual's output files. Some of these
        files can be found inside and outside the language-specific
        directories so as to control common and specific output
        settings through them.
    </para>

    <example id="manuals-texinfo-templates-1">
    <title>Texinfo document template</title>
    <screenshot>
    <screeninfo>Texinfo document template</screeninfo>
    <mediaobject>
    <textobject>
    <programlisting>branches/Scripts/Bash/Functions/Help/Texinfo/Templates
|-- ${LANG}
|   |-- Chapters
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter.texinfo
|   |   `-- section.texinfo
|   |-- Licenses
|   |   |-- GFDL.texinfo
|   |   |-- GPL.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-menu.texinfo
|   |   |-- chapter-nodes.texinfo
|   |   `-- chapter.texinfo
|   |-- manual-index.texinfo
|   |-- manual-init.pl
|   |-- manual-menu.texinfo
|   |-- manual-nodes.texinfo
|   |-- manual.conf
|   |-- manual.sed
|   `-- manual.texinfo
|-- manual-init.pl
`-- manual.sed</programlisting>
    </textobject>
    </mediaobject>
    </screenshot>
    </example>

    <para>
        Inside texinfo document templates, the <filename
        class="directory">Chapters</filename> directory organizes
        chapter specific models used to create and maintain both
        chapter and sections inside manuals. On the other hand, the
        <filename class="directory">Licenses</filename> organizes
        license information used by all manuals created from such
        template. License information is not copied to documentation
        manuals, but refered from them to this location where they are
        maintained. This configuration permites that all documentation
        manuals written in texinfo format inside &TCAR; do use the
        same license information and if a change is committed to the
        license files, such changes be immediatly propagated to
        documentation manuals the next time their output files be
        updated.
    </para>

</sect1>
