<sect1 id="scripts-bash-funref">

    <title>Environment Functions Reference</title>

    <para>
        In addition to environment variables described above, the
        centos-art.sh script makes available the following common
        environment functions once it is executed:
    </para>

    <variablelist>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>cli_checkFiles</command> 
            <arg choice="req">
            <arg>-d</arg>
            <arg>-e</arg>
            <arg>-f</arg>
            <arg>-h</arg>
            <arg>-x</arg>
            </arg>
            <arg choice="req" rep="repeat"><replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_checkFiles</function> standardizes the way
        files are verified inside the centos-art.sh script. It tries
        to answers questions like <emphasis>Is
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> a regular file or
        directory?</emphasis> or even, <emphasis>does
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> have execution
        rights?</emphasis>.  You can provide several
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> arguments to this function
        in order to perform the verifications over them. Likewise, you
        can combine different options to realize different
        verifications over the same files. In case the verification
        fails, an error message is printed and the script finishes its
        execution.
    </para>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_checkFiles</function> is an interface for
        the <command>test</command> command and accepts the following
        options:
    </para>
    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-d</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Verifies whether <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> exists
        and is a directory. If it doesn't exists or isn't a directory,
        an error message is printed and the script finishes its
        execution.  Otherwise, if it exists and is a directory, the
        script continues its execution normally.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-e</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Verifies whether <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> exists or
        not. If it doesn't exist, an error message is printed and the
        script finishes its execution.  Otherwise, if it does exists,
        the script continues its execution normally.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-f</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Verifies whether <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> exists
        and is a regular file. If it doesn't exists or isn't a regular
        file, an error message is printed and the script finishes its
        execution. Otherwise, if it exists and is a regular file, the
        script continues its execution normally.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-h</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Verifies whether <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> exists
        and is a symbolic link. If it doesn't exists or isn't a
        symbolic link, an error message is printed and the script
        finishes its execution immediately.  Otherwise, if it does
        exist and is a symbolic link, the script continue its
        execution normally.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>-x</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Verifies whether <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> exists
        and execution permission is granted. If it doesn't exist or
        hasn't execution permission, the script finishes its execution
        immediately. Otherwise, if it exists and has execution
        permissions, the script continues its execution normally.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    </variablelist>
    <para>
        Use the <function>cli_checkFiles</function> function whenever
        you need to verify files inside the &TCAR;.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    
    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>cli_checkRepoDirSource</command>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>

    <para>
        The <function>cli_checkRepoDirSource</function> function
        standardizes the path construction to directories inside it
        the working copy, using absolute paths.  This function
        transforms relative paths passed as non-option arguments to
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script command-line into
        absolute paths inside the working copy and verifies whether
        they really exist as directories inside the working copy or
        not. If the path provided doesn't exist as directory inside
        the working copy, the script will finish its execution
        immediately with an error message. Otherwise, if the directory
        exists, the variable <varname>ACTIONVAL</varname> is redefined
        with the related absolute path for further use.
    </para>
 
    <para>
        Use the <function>cli_checkRepoDirSource</function> function
        whenever you need to be sure that non-option arguments passed
        to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script command-line will
        always point to directories inside the working copy.
    </para>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>cli_expandTMarkers</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_expandTMarkers</function> standardizes
        construction of translation markers and their related
        expansion. As convention, translation markers are set inside
        source files (e.g., DocBook, SVG) and expanded inside temporal
        instances used to produce final contents. The
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> argument should point to
        the temporal file where translation markers expansion takes
        place in.
    </para>
    <para>
        Translation markers written in source files must comply the
        <literal>=[A-Z_]+=</literal> regular expression pattern. For
        example, <literal>=UNKNOWN_MARKER=</literal> is a valid
        translation marker without any replacement. To prevent
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script from expanding
        translation markers, add a backslash (<literal>\</literal>)
        between the first equal sign and the following letter. For
        example, <literal>=\...=</literal> won't be expanded.
    </para>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_expandTMarkers</function> supports the
        following translation markers:
    </para>
    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_YEAR_LAST=</literal></term>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_YEAR=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        These translation markers expand to the last year used in
        copyright notes. For example,
        <literal>=COPYRIGHT_YEAR_LAST=</literal>. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_YEAR_LIST=</literal></term>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_YEARS_LIST=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation markers expand to the list of years used in
        copyright notes. For example,
        <literal>=COPYRIGHT_YEARS_LIST=</literal>.  The first year
        represents the time we began to work on &TCAR;.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_HOLDER=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the holder used in
        copyright notes. For example,
        <literal>=COPYRIGHT_HOLDER=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\COPYRIGHT_HOLDER_PREDICATE=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands both the holder and the
        predicate used in copyright notes. For example,
        <literal>=COPYRIGHT_HOLDER_PREDICATE=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\BRAND=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the brand name used on
        files names and URLs inside &TCAR;.  For example,
        <literal>=BRAND=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\LICENSE=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the license information
        used in files created by <command>centos-art.sh</command>
        script. For example, <literal>=LICENSE=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\LICENSE_URL=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the license URL used in
        files created by <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. For
        example, <literal>=LICENSE_URL=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\THEME=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the theme portion of path
        you are producing through centos-art.sh script. As
        consequence, this translation marker should be used in
        situations where you are producing theme components only.
        This translation marker expands its value by retrieving the
        theme part of the path you provide as non-option argument to
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. For example, if you
        provide the path
        <filename>trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/Modern/2/Distro/5</filename>,
        this translation will expand to the
        <literal>Modern/2/</literal> value.
    </para>
    <para>
        In case you need to retrieve the theme name or version
        separately one another, then you can use the
        <literal>=\THEMENAME=</literal> and
        <literal>=\THEMERELEASE=</literal> translation markers,
        respectively. When you use these translation markers, forward
        slashes are removed from result. So, if you provide the path
        <filename>trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/Modern/2/Distro/5</filename>,
        <literal>=\THEMENAME=</literal> will expand to
        <literal>Modern</literal> and
        <literal>=THEMERELEASE=</literal> will expand to
        <literal>2</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\RELEASE=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the current release
        information of your CentOS distribution. By default this
        information is retrieved from
        <filename>/etc/redhat-release</filename>. In case the option
        <option>--release</option> be passed, the value specified with
        it will overwrite the default value and will be this the one
        used as reference for this translation marker to retrieve the
        release information. So, for example, if you are running a
        CentOS-5.8 distribution and no <option>--release</option>
        option is passed to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script,
        this translation marker expands to <literal>5.8</literal>. On
        the other hand, if you are still running a CentOS-5.8
        distribution but provide the <option>--release=6.3</option>
        option to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script, this
        translation marker expands to <literal>6.3</literal> instead.
    </para>
    <para>
        In case you need to retrieve minor and major release numbers
        separately one another, then you can use the
        <literal>=\MINOR_RELEASE=</literal> and
        <literal>=\MAJOR_RELEASE=</literal> translation makers,
        respectively.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\ARCH=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the current architecture of
        your CentOS Distribution. By default this information is
        retrieved from <command>uname -i</command>. In case the option
        <option>--arch</option> be passed, the value specified with it
        will overwrite the default value and will be the one used as
        reference. For example, if the <command>uname -i</command>
        outputs the line <computeroutput>i386</computeroutput>, this
        translation marker will expand to <literal>i386</literal>. On
        the other hand, if you pass the <option>--arch=x86_64</option>
        option to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script, this
        translation marker will expand to <literal>x86_64</literal>
        instead.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\URL=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the URL which points to
        &TCP; home page. For example, <literal>=URL=</literal>.  In
        case you are using the centos-art.sh script in a different
        locale but English (<literal>en_US.UTF-8</literal>), this
        translation marker expands as usual but with the language
        information appended to the end of the string. For example, if
        you are executing the centos-art.shscript for Spanish locale
        (e.g., <literal>es_ES.UTF-8</literal>), this translation
        marker expands to <literal>=URL=es/</literal>.
    </para>

    <para>
        In case you need to expand other URL related to &TCP; domain,
        use translation markers described in <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-funref-expandTMarkers-Url" />. Likewise
        =\URL=, translation markers described in <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-funref-expandTMarkers-Url" /> does
        append the current language information to the end of the URL
        string based on the locale information you are currently
        executing the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
    </para>

    <table id="scripts-bash-funref-expandTMarkers-Url">
    <title>URL-related translation markers</title>
    <tgroup cols="2" align="left">
    <thead>
        <row>
            <entry>Translation Marker</entry>
            <entry>Expands To</entry>
        </row>
    </thead>

    <tbody>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_WIKI=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_WIKI=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_LISTS=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_LISTS=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_FORUMS=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_FORUMS=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_MIRRORS=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_MIRRORS=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_DOCS=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_DOCS=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_PROJECTS=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_PROJECTS=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_SVN=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_SVN=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_TRAC=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_TRAC=</literal></entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><literal>=\URL_PLANET=</literal></entry>
            <entry><literal>=URL_PLANET=</literal></entry>
        </row>
    </tbody>
    
    </tgroup>
    </table>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\MAIL_DOCS=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to CentOS documentation
        mailing list address. For example,
        <literal>=MAIL_DOCS=</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\LOCALE=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the current locale
        information used by <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
        This value is retrieved from the <envar>LANG</envar>
        environment variable and should look like
        <literal>=LOCALE=</literal>.  In case you need to retrieve the
        language and country part separately one another, you can use
        the <literal>=\LOCALE_LL=</literal> and
        <literal>=\LOCALE_CC=</literal>, respectively.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\REPO_TLDIR=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the absolute path to
        <filename class="directory">trunk/</filename> directory inside
        your workstation. For example,
        <literal>/home/al/Projects/CentOS/artwork/trunk</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><literal>=\REPO_HOME=</literal></term>
    <term><literal>=\TCAR_WORKDIR=</literal></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This translation marker expands to the absolute path of your
        working copy.  For example,
        <literal>/home/al/Projects/CentOS/artwork</literal>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    <para>
        See also: <xref linkend="cli_getTemporalFile" />
    </para>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command id="cli_exportFunctions">cli_exportFunctions</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>EXPORTID</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_exportFunctions</function> function
        standardizes the way specific functionalities are exported to
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script execution environment.
        The <replaceable>EXPORTID</replaceable> argument points the
        specific function initialization file relatively from
        <filename>trunk/Scripts/Bash/Functions</filename> directory
        on. For example, if we want to export the
        <function>render</function> specific functionality, we use the
        following construction:
    </para>
    <screen>cli_exportFunctions "Render/render"</screen>
    <para>
        In this construction, <literal>Render</literal> with the first
        letter in upper case is the name of the directory under
        <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Scripts/Bash/Functions</filename>
        where the specific functionality is stored in, and
        <literal>render</literal> with all letters in lower case is
        the name of the specific functionality we want to export,
        without its extension. This name is also use as suffix to
        identify all files related to the specific functionality we
        are exporting to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script
        execution environment.
    </para>

    <para>
        See also: <xref linkend="cli_unsetFunctions" />
    </para>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>cli_synchronizeRepoChanges</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_synchronizeRepoChanges</function>
        standardizes the way changes are synchronized between the
        working copy and the central repository using
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> as reference. This
        function is the interface we use inside the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to execute the
        <function>Svn</function> functionality described in <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-svn" />.
    </para>
    <para>
        Use <function>cli_synchronizeRepoChanges</function> function
        inside the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script whenever
        you need to synchronize one or more changes at any
        <replaceable>LOCATION</replaceable> inside the working copy.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>cli_printMessage</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable></arg>
            <group choice="opt">
            <arg>--as-separator-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-banner-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-cropping-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-tuningup-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-checking-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-combining-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-creating-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-reading-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-savedas-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-linkto-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-movedto-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-validating-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-template-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-configuration-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-palette-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-reponse-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-request-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-selection-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-error-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-toknowmore-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-yesornorequest-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-notrailingnew-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-stdout-line</arg>
            <arg>--as-stderr-line</arg>
            </group>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The <function>cli_printMessage</function> function
        standardizes the way centos-ar.sh scirpt prints messages. By
        default, centos-art.sh script prints all messages to the
        standard output with the exception of those messages printed
        with the <option>--as-stderr-line</option> option, which are
        printed to standard error output instead.
    </para>

    <para>
        The <function>cli_printMessage</function> function requires
        two arguments.  The first argument specifies the
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> you want to print and the
        second argument specifies the FORMAT you'll use to print that
        message. Because this function is so used inside the
        centos-art.sh script, it is convenient to provide localization
        to strings passed as <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> using
        <command>gettext</command> contructions when they aren't
        paths.
    </para>

    <para>
        The <function>cli_printMessage</function> function accepts the
        following formats as second argument:
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-separator-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format takes the first character passed as
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> and repeats it horizontally
        to build a separator line.  Use this format whenever you need
        to create a logical separation between different actions.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-banner-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format takes the string passed as
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> and puts it inside two
        horizontal separator lines. Use this format whenever you need
        to print header information for following lines.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-cropping-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been cropped.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-tuningup-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable>
        generally refers to a file inside the repository.  Use this
        format whenever you need to imply the fact that certain file
        has been tuned-up.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-checking-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been checked or verified
        (e.g., through <function>cli_checkFiles</function>
        functionality).
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-combining-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been combined.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-creating-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been created.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-reading-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been read.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-savedas-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been saved.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-linkto-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been linked.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-movedto-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been moved.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-validating-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file has been validated.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-template-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file is a template or design
        model.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-configuration-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file is a configuration file.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-palette-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format is for two columns messages where
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> generally refers to a file
        inside the repository.  Use this format whenever you need to
        imply the fact that certain file is a palette of colors.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-response-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format adds <literal>--></literal> at the begining of the
        string passed as <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable>.  Use this
        format whenever you need to imply the fact that certain file
        is considered part of a response. For example, when you need
        to express that a group of files will take ceratin action, you
        can use this option to doing so.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-request-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format prints <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> without
        trailing new line.  Use this format whenever you need to imply
        a question or yes or no request.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-selection-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format uses each word in
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> as item of a selection
        list. Use this format whenever you need to select one of the
        items provided as <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable>.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-error-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format prints error messages produced by centos-art.sh
        script. It uses the <command>caller</command> built-in command
        to display the line number and the filename where such error
        was triggered. Later, it prints where to find more information
        by using the <option>--as-toknowmore-line</option> option.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-toknowmore-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format takes a function name as
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> and prints the command you
        can use to find more information about it. When this option is
        passed the script finishes its execution immediately. This
        option is used in combination with
        <option>--as-error-line</option> to finish the script
        execution after an error.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-yesornorequest-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This format takes a question as
        <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> and reads a yes or no
        answer. When answer is negative, the script finishes its
        execution immediately. When answer is affirmative, the script
        continues its execution normally. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-notrailingnew-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Print <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> without any trailing
        newline.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-stdout-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Print <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> to standard output.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    
    <varlistentry>
    <term><option>--as-stderr-line</option></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Print <replaceable>MESSAGE</replaceable> to standard error
        output.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    </variablelist>
    <para>
        Use <function>cli_printMessage</function> function whenever
        you need to print information inside the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command id="cli_unsetFunctions" xreflabel="cli_unsetFunctions">cli_unsetFunctions</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>EXPORTID</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command id="cli_getTemporalFile" xreflabel="cli_getTemporalFile">cli_getTemporalFile</command>
            <arg choice="req"><replaceable>FILENAME</replaceable></arg>
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>...</term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    </variablelist>

</sect1>

