Mozilla Firefox - Website Services Agreement
============================================

The accompanying version of Mozilla Firefox utilizes website
information services (``Services''), such as safe-browsing features,
which are provided by the Mozilla Corporation and made available to
you under additional terms.  By using the Services, you consent to the
terms of the referenced Mozilla Firefox Website Services Agreement.

If you do not agree to these terms, do not use the Services and
disable the Services in Edit -> Preferences -> Security and uncheck
the options for both: ``Tell me if the site I'm visiting is a
suspected attack site'' and ``Tell me if the site I'm visiting is a
suspected forgery.''

Version 3.0, June 2008
----------------------

During the Mozilla Firefox installation process, and at later times,
you may be given the option of installing additional components from
third-party software providers.  The installation and use of those
third-party components may be governed by additional license
agreements.

In this Mozilla Firefox Website Services Agreement (``Agreement''),
the accompanying executable version of Mozilla Firefox shall be
referred to as ``the Product''.

The Product utilizes website information services (``Services''), such
as safe-browsing features, which are provided by the Mozilla
Corporation (``Mozilla'') and made available to you subject to the
terms below. By using the Services, you consent to the terms of this
Agreement. If you do not agree to the terms of this Agreement, do not
use the Services and disable the Services in the preferences/security
menu.  

Use Of Service
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mozilla permits you to use the Services via the Product.  This
Agreement will also govern the use of Services made available to you
as a result of your installing any executable software upgrades to the
Product provided to you by CentOS, where those Services replace and/or
supplement the Services provided through use of the Product.  In such
a case, ``the Product'' shall also refer to such installed upgrades.
However, if such upgrades are accompanied by a separate agreement from
Mozilla, the terms of that agreement will govern.

Termination
~~~~~~~~~~~

If you breach this Agreement your right to use the Services will
terminate immediately and without notice, but all provisions of this
Agreement except the Use of Services (Paragraph 1) will survive
termination and continue in effect.

Proprietary Rights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Subject to this Agreement and to all applicable licensing terms
governing your use of the Product, Mozilla, for itself and on behalf
of its licensors, hereby reserves all intellectual property rights in
the Services, except for the rights expressly granted in this
Agreement.  You may not remove or alter any trademark, logo, copyright
or other proprietary notice in or on the Product.  This agreement does
not grant you any right to use the trademarks, service marks or logos
of Mozilla or its licensors.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be
construed to limit any rights granted under open source licenses
applicable to the Product and to corresponding source code versions of
the Product.

Privacy Policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Mozilla Firefox Privacy Policy is made available online at
http://www.mozilla.com/legal/privacy/, as that policy may be updated
from time to time.

Website Information Services
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mozilla and its contributors, licensors and partners work to provide
the most accurate and up-to-date phishing and malware information.
However, they cannot guarantee that this information is comprehensive
and error-free: some risky sites may not be identified, and some safe
sites may be identified in error.

Disclaimer Of Warranty
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The product and services are provided ``as is'' with all faults.  To
the extent permitted by law, mozilla and mozilla's distributors, and
licensors hereby disclaim all warranties, whether express or implied,
including without limitation warranties that the product and services
are free of defects, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose and
non-infringing.  You bear the entire risk as to selecting the product
and services for your purposes and as to the quality and performance
of the product and services.  This limitation will apply
notwithstanding the failure of essential purpose of any remedy.  Some
jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of implied
warranties, so this disclaimer may not apply to you.

Limitation Of Liability
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Except as required by law, mozilla and its distributors, directors,
licensors, contributors and agents (collectively, the ``mozilla
group'') will not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental,
consequential or exemplary damages arising out of or in any way
relating to this agreement or the use of or inability to use the
product and the services, including without limitation damages for
loss of goodwill, work stoppage, lost profits, loss of data, and
computer failure or malfunction, even if advised of the possibility of
such damages and regardless of the theory (contract, tort or
otherwise) upon which such claim is based.  The mozilla group's
collective liability under this agreement will not exceed the greater
of $500 (five hundred dollars) and the fees paid by you under the
license (if any).  Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or
limitation of incidental, consequential or special damages, so this
exclusion and limitation may not apply to you.

U.S. Goverment End-Users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This Product is a ``commercial item,'' as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101, consisting of ``commercial computer software'' and
``commercial computer software documentation,'' as such terms are used
in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995) and 48 C.F.R.  227.7202 (June 1995).
Consistent with 48 C.F.R.  12.212, 48 C.F.R.  27.405(b)(2) (June 1998)
and 48 C.F.R.  227.7202, all U.S.  Government End Users acquire the
Product with only those rights as set forth therein.

Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

a. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between Mozilla and
you concerning the subject matter hereof, and it may only be modified
by a written amendment signed by an authorized executive of Mozilla.

b. Except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise,
this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the state of
California, U.S.A., excluding its conflict of law provisions.

c. This Agreement will not be governed by the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.

d. If any part of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable,
that part will be construed to reflect the parties' original intent,
and the remaining portions will remain in full force and effect

e. A waiver by either party of any term or condition of this Agreement
or any breach thereof, in any one instance, will not waive such term
or condition or any subsequent breach thereof.  

f. Except as required by law, the controlling language of this
Agreement is English. 

g. You may assign your rights under this Agreement to any party that
consents to, and agrees to be bound by, its terms; the Mozilla
Corporation may assign its rights under this Agreement without
condition.

h. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties, their successors and permitted assigns.

// vim: set syntax=asciidoc:
