@subheading Goals

This directory provides design models to produce image files for the
following CentOS Distribution components:

@table @strong
@item Syslinux
Contains design models for syslinux, the program used to boot the
CentOS Distribution installation media. --- @strong{Removed}(xref:Directories trunk
Identity Themes Models Default Distro Syslinux) ---, for more information.

@item Anaconda  
Contains design models for Anaconda, the program used to install
CentOS Distribution.  @xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models
Default Distro Anaconda}, for more information.

@item Firstboot  
Contains design models for the first boot program used to configure
the maching onece installed.  @xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes
Models Default Distro Firstboot}, for more information.

@item Rhgb
Contains design models for CentOS Graphical Boot, the program used to
show the boot process from Grub to Display Manager.  @xref{Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Rhgb}, for more
information.

@item Gdm  
Contains design models for GNOME Display Manager, the program used to
log into the manchine once installed and configured. @xref{Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Gdm}, for more
information.

@item Kdm  
Contains design models for KDE Display Manager, the program used to
log into the manchine once installed and configured. @xref{Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Kdm}, for more
information.

@item Grub 
Contains design models for GRUB (Grand Unified Boot Loader), the
program used to boot the machine into an operating system.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Kdm}, for
more information.

@item Gsplash 
Contains design models for GNOME splash, the program used to show the
progress information while user's graphical session is loading.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Gsplash},
for more information.

@item Ksplash  
Contains design models for KDE splash, the program used to show the
progress information while user's graphical session is loading.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Ksplash},
for more information.
@end table
@subheading Description

The CentOS Distribution visual style is controlled by image files.
These image files are packaged inside The CentOS Distribution and made
visible once such packages are installed and executed. The way to go
for changing The CentOS Distribution visual style is changing all
those image files to add the desired visual style first and later,
repackage them to make them available inside the final iso files of
CentOS Distribution.

@subheading Usage

This directory provides organizationl structure to store default
design models for CentOS Themes of CentOS Distribution and so it
should be considered to be used.

When a new component is added to CentOS Distribution, this is the
directory you need to go for specifying design models for image files
inside such component. 

The procedure to follow is creatig a directory for each component
using its very same name (e.g., the directory @file{Anaconda} stores
image files for Anaconda component, the installer program). Inside the
directory, you need to create one scalable vector graphic for each
image file inside the component you want to produce images for. This,
in order to set image dimensions, image file-name, position of
trademarks in the final image, translation markers and whatever common
information you need to have specified in them when rendered by
@command{centos-art} script.

Sometimes, between major releases, image files inside packages can be
added, removed or just change their names. In order to describe such
image files variations, the design models directory structure is
organized in the same way the file variations are introduced (i.e.,
through The CentOS Project Release Schema).  So, each major release of
CentOS Distribution does have its own design model directory structure
in this directory.

When a whole package is removed from one or all CentOS Distribution
major releases, the design models directory structure releated to it
is no longer used.  However it could be very useful for historical
reasons.  Also, someone could feel motivated enough to keep himself
documenting it or supporting it for whatever reason.

@subheading See also

@menu
* Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default::
@end menu
