<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>

    <title>CentOS Artwork Repository: 1.3 Copying Conditions</title>

    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <meta name="description" content="CentOS Artwork Repository: 1.3 Copying Conditions" />
    <meta name="keywords" content="CentOS Artwork Repository: 1.3 Copying Conditions" />
    <meta name="resource-type" content="document" />
    <meta name="distribution" content="global" />
    <meta name="generator" content="texi2html 1.76" />
    <meta name="copyright" content="2009-2011 Alain Reguera Delgado" />

    <link href="/home/centos/artwork/trunk/Identity/Manual/repository.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen projection" />

</head>

<body>

<a name="top" />

<div id="wrap">

    <div id="page-body">

        <div id="content">

<!-- Created on March, 30 2011 by texi2html 1.76 -->
<table cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1" border="0">
<tr><td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_3.xhtml#SEC7" title="Previous section in reading order"> &lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC9" title="Next section in reading order"> &gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_1.xhtml#SEC1" title="Beginning of this chapter or previous chapter"> &lt;&lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_1.xhtml#SEC1" title="Up section"> Up </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_7.xhtml#SEC12" title="Next chapter"> &gt;&gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository.xhtml#SEC_Top" title="Cover (top) of document">Top</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_toc.xhtml#SEC_Contents" title="Table of contents">Contents</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_80.xhtml#SEC416" title="Index">Index</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_abt.xhtml#SEC_About" title="About (help)"> ? </a>]</td>
</tr></table>
<a name="Copying-Conditions"></a>
<a name="SEC8"></a>
<h2 class="section"> 1.3 Copying Conditions </h2>

<p>Inside the CentOS Artwork Repository you can find content branded by
The CentOS Project and content not branded at all. Contents branded by
The CentOS Project contain either The CentOS Trademark, The CentOS
Logo or The CentOS Symbol.  Content branded by The CentOS Project
cannot be redistributed without previous conversation with The CentOS
Project.  However, you can study and modify both content branded by
The CentOS Project and content not branded at all in the sake of
proposing improvements to The CentOS Project corporate visual
identity.
</p>
<p>If you are using the CentOS Artwork Repository for producing your own
corporate visual identity, you should remove all The CentOS Trademarks
from your contents and rename the repository to something other than
CentOS Artwork Repository.
</p>
<p>The CentOS Artwork Repository organizes files in a very specific way
to implement The CentOS Project corporate visual identity. This very
specific organization of files is part of <code>centos-art.sh</code>
script, a bash script that automates most of the frequent tasks inside
the repository.
</p>
<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<a name="SEC9"></a>
<h3 class="subsection"> 1.3.1 The <code>centos-art.sh</code> script </h3>

<p>The <code>centos-art.sh</code> script and the organization of files it
needs to work are not in the public domain; they are copyrighted and
there are restrictions on their distribution, but these restrictions
are designed to permit everything that a good cooperating citizen
would want to do.  What is not allowed is to try to prevent others
from further sharing any version of this program that they might get
from you.
</p>
<p>Specifically, we want to make sure that you have the right to give
away copies of <code>centos-art.sh</code> script, that you receive source
code or else can get it if you want it, that you can change this
program or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know
you can do these things.
</p>
<p>To make sure that everyone has such rights, we have to forbid you to
deprive anyone else of these rights.  For example, if you distribute
copies of the <code>centos-art.sh</code> script, you must give the
recipients all the rights that you have.  You must make sure that
they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you must tell them
their rights.
</p>
<p>Also, for our own protection, we must make certain that everyone finds
out that there is no warranty for the <code>centos-art.sh</code> script.
If this program is modified by someone else and passed on, we want
their recipients to know that what they have is not what we
distributed, so that any problems introduced by others will not
reflect on our reputation.
</p>
<p>The precise conditions of the license for the <code>centos-art.sh</code>
script are found in the General Public Licenses that accompany it (see
file
<a href="file:///home/centos/artwork/trunk/Scripts/COPYING">trunk/Scripts/COPYING</a>).
This manual specifically is covered by the GNU Free Documentation
License.
</p>
<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<table cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1" border="0">
<tr><td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC8" title="Previous section in reading order"> &lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_5.xhtml#SEC10" title="Next section in reading order"> &gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_1.xhtml#SEC1" title="Beginning of this chapter or previous chapter"> &lt;&lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC8" title="Up section"> Up </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_7.xhtml#SEC12" title="Next chapter"> &gt;&gt; </a>]</td>
</tr></table>

            <div class="page-line"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>

        </div>

    </div>

    <div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>

</div>

</body>

</html>
