<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
    PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>

    <title>CentOS Artwork Repository: 2.36 The trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs Directory</title>

    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <meta name="description" content="CentOS Artwork Repository: 2.36 The trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs Directory" />
    <meta name="keywords" content="CentOS Artwork Repository: 2.36 The trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs Directory" />
    <meta name="resource-type" content="document" />
    <meta name="distribution" content="global" />
    <meta name="generator" content="texi2html 1.76" />
    <meta name="copyright" content="2009-2011 Alain Reguera Delgado" />

    <link href="/home/centos/artwork/trunk/Identity/Manual/repository.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen projection" />

</head>

<body>

<a name="top" />

<div id="wrap">

    <div id="page-body">

        <div id="content">

<!-- Created on March, 30 2011 by texi2html 1.76 -->
<table cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1" border="0">
<tr><td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_42.xhtml#SEC201" title="Previous section in reading order"> &lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC203" title="Next section in reading order"> &gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_7.xhtml#SEC12" title="Beginning of this chapter or previous chapter"> &lt;&lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_7.xhtml#SEC12" title="Up section"> Up </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_80.xhtml#SEC416" title="Next chapter"> &gt;&gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository.xhtml#SEC_Top" title="Cover (top) of document">Top</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_toc.xhtml#SEC_Contents" title="Table of contents">Contents</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_80.xhtml#SEC416" title="Index">Index</a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_abt.xhtml#SEC_About" title="About (help)"> ? </a>]</td>
</tr></table>
<a name="Directories-trunk-Identity-Themes-Motifs"></a>
<a name="SEC202"></a>
<h2 class="section"> 2.36 The <tt>`trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs'</tt> Directory </h2>

<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<a name="SEC203"></a>
<h3 class="subsection"> 2.36.1 Goals </h3>

<p>The <tt>`trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs'</tt> directory exists to:
</p>
<ul class="toc">
<li> Organize CentOS themes' artistic motifs. 
</li></ul>


<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<a name="SEC204"></a>
<h3 class="subsection"> 2.36.2 Description </h3>

<p>The artistic motif of theme is a graphic design component that
provides the visual style of themes, it is used as pattern to connect
all visual manifestations inside one unique theme.
</p>
<p>Artistic motifs are based on conceptual ideas. Conceptual ideas bring
the motivation, they are fuel for the engines of human imagination.
Good conceptual ideas may produce good motivation to produce almost
anything, and art works don't escape from it.
</p>
<dl compact="compact">
<dt> <samp>`TreeFlower'</samp> </dt>
<dd><p>CentOS like trees, has roots, trunk, branches, leaves and flowers. Day
by day they work together in freedom, ruled by the laws of nature and
open standards, to show the beauty of its existence.
</p></dd>
<dt> <samp>`Modern'</samp> </dt>
<dd><p>Modern, squares and circles flowing up.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<p>If you have new conceptual ideas for CentOS, then you can say that you
want to create a new artistic motif for CentOS. To create a new
artistic motif you need to create a directory under
<tt>`Identity/Themes/Motifs/'</tt> using a name coherent with your
conceptual idea. That name will be the name of your artistic motif. If
possible, when creating new conceptual ideas for CentOS, think about
what CentOS means for you, what does it makes you feel, take your
time, think deep, and share; you can improve the idea as time goes on.
</p>
<p>Once you have defined a name for your theme, you need to create the
motif structure of your theme. The motif structure is the basic
direcotry structure you'll use to work your ideas. Here is where you
organize your graphic design projects.
</p>
<p>To add a new motif structure to CentOS Artwork Repository, you need to
use the <code>centos-art</code> command line in the
<tt>`Identity/Themes/Motifs/'</tt> directory as described below:
</p>
<table><tr><td>&nbsp;</td><td><pre class="example">centos-art add --motif=ThemeName
</pre></td></tr></table>
<p>The previous command will create the basic structure of themes for
you.  The basic structure produced by <code>centos-art</code> command is
illustrated in the following figure:
</p>
<table><tr><td>&nbsp;</td><td><pre class="example">trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs/$ThemeName/
|-- Backgrounds
|   |-- Img
|   `-- Tpl
|-- Info
|   |-- Img
|   `-- Tpl
|-- Palettes
`-- Screenshots
</pre></td></tr></table>
<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<a name="SEC205"></a>
<h3 class="subsection"> 2.36.3 Usage </h3>

<p>When designing artistic motifs for CentOS, consider the following
recommendations:
</p>
<ul class="toc">
<li> Give a unique (case-sensitive) name to your Motif. This name is
used as value wherever theme variable (<b>$THEME</b>) or translation marker
(<b>=THEME=</b>) is.  Optionally, you can add a description about
inspiration and concepts behind your work.

</li><li> Use the location <tt>`trunk/Identity/Themes/Motifs/$THEME/'</tt> to
store your work. If it doesn't exist create it. Note that this require
you to have previous commit access in CentOS Artwork Repository.

</li><li> The CentOS Project is using the blue color (<b>#204c8d</b>) as base
color for its corporate visual identity. Use such base corporate color
information as much as possible in your artistic motif designs.

</li><li> Try to make your design fit one of the theme models.

</li><li> Feel free to make your art enterprise-level and beautiful.

</li><li> Add the following information on your artwork (both in a visible
design area and document metadata):

<ul class="toc">
<li> The name (or logo) of your artistic motif.

</li><li> The copyright sentence: <b>Copyright (C) YEAR YOURNAME</b>

</li><li> The license under which the work is released. All CentOS Art
works are released under
<a class="www" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Common Share-Alike License 3.0</a>
(<a class="www" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/</a>).

</li></ul>
</li></ul>

<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<a name="SEC206"></a>
<h3 class="subsection"> 2.36.4 See also </h3>

<table class="menu" border="0" cellspacing="0">
<tr><td align="left" valign="top"><a href="repository_26.xhtml#SEC117">2.19 The <tt>`trunk/Identity/Themes'</tt> Directory</a></td><td>&nbsp;&nbsp;</td><td align="left" valign="top">
</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left" valign="top"><a href="repository_11.xhtml#SEC28">2.4 The <tt>`trunk/Identity'</tt> Directory</a></td><td>&nbsp;&nbsp;</td><td align="left" valign="top">
</td></tr>
<tr><td align="left" valign="top"><a href="repository_10.xhtml#SEC23">2.3 The <tt>`trunk'</tt> Directory</a></td><td>&nbsp;&nbsp;</td><td align="left" valign="top">
</td></tr>
</table>

<div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>
<table cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1" border="0">
<tr><td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC205" title="Previous section in reading order"> &lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_44.xhtml#SEC207" title="Next section in reading order"> &gt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left"> &nbsp; </td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_7.xhtml#SEC12" title="Beginning of this chapter or previous chapter"> &lt;&lt; </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="#SEC202" title="Up section"> Up </a>]</td>
<td valign="middle" align="left">[<a href="repository_80.xhtml#SEC416" title="Next chapter"> &gt;&gt; </a>]</td>
</tr></table>

            <div class="page-line"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>

        </div>

    </div>

    <div class="page-line white"><hr style="display:none;" /></div>

</div>

</body>

</html>
