<sect1 id="repo-ws-install">

    <title>Installing Your Workstation</title>

    <para>
        In order to have a working copy of &TCAR; in your workstation,
        the first step you need to follow is pick up a computer and
        install an operating system in it. This computer will be named
        the workstation from now on. 
    </para>
        
    <para>
        At the moment of chosing which operating system to install in
        your workstation, consider that &TCAR; is completly built on
        &TCD; and realies on it to achieve most automation tasks. At
        time of this writing the major release 5 update 5 of &TCD; was
        used as platform to support all work line development inside
        &TCAR;. To get the best of &TCAR;, it is necessary that you
        too, use the same operating system we did to develop it.
    </para>

    <para>
        To install &TCD; you need to have access to the installation
        media somehow (e.g., CDs, DVDs, Pendrives, etc.).  If you
        don't have the installation media of &TCD;, you need to
        download the ISO files related to the installation media you
        plan to use (e.g., CD or DVD) and then create the installation
        media by yourself.  &TCD; ISO files can be downloaded from
        &TCM;.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Assuming you downloaded the DVD ISO of &TCD;, you can burn it
        using the <application>K3B</application> application and, this
        way, you are creating the installation media you are in need
        of.  Of course, in order to download the ISO files and create
        the installation media, you need to have a workstation already
        functionality where you can realized such tasks. If this is
        the first time for you and see yourself into much troubles
        here, talk to the guys in your nearest LUG, or simply send a
        mail to &TCML; where you'll surely have the answer you need.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Once you have the installation media on your hands, the
        installation process of &TCD; is rather straightforward. To
        begin, you put the installation media in your media reader,
        boot the computer from it, and follow the installer
        intructions till it completes all the steps. That simple.
    </para>

    <sect2 id="repo-ws-partition">

    <title>Partition Information</title>
    
    <para>
        The partition information you set in your workstation is very
        specific to your personal needs and the technical
        characteristics of your machine.  This information will also
        set the bases of all deployment you reach to achieve inside
        the workstation. A well partitioned workstation is crucial to
        garantee a well distribution of space inside the worstation.
        In order to provide an idea of this installation step, I'll
        describe the specific partitioning of the machine I use to
        develop &TCAR; right now.  Remember that your needs might be
        differents and so the partition layout you should implement.
    </para>

    <para>
        The machine of our example is isolated from Internet or any
        other network. It has two hard drives of 256GB each, 2GB of
        RAM and a 2.80GHz Core 2 Duo processor. The main goal of this
        machine is producing &TCAR;. To represent the real production
        environment of &TCAR;, this machine was conceived to have two
        roles, one as server &mdash;to store the source repository of
        &TCAR;&mdash; and one as client &mdash;to store a working copy
        of the source repository&mdash;. From both hard drives
        available, one is used as primary
        (<filename>/dev/sda</filename>) and the other one as secondary
        (<filename>/dev/sdb</filename>) where the secondary is used
        only to backup the information produced in the primary by mean
        of backup scripts.
    </para>
    <para>
        The partition distribution of this machine implements the
        default partinioning schema provided by &TCD; in the primary
        hard drive to store partitions needed by the operating system
        (e.g., <filename class="directory">/</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">/boot</filename> and swap partition) where
        the working copy is placed in. The second hard drive is an
        entire partition mounted in <filename
        class="directory">/mnt/backups</filename> automatically on
        boot which only purpose is to duplicate the information
        produced in the workplace.
    </para>

<screen>
Filesystem                          Type   Size  Mounted on
/dev/mapper/VolGroup00-LogVol00     ext3   239G  /
/dev/sda1                           ext3   104M  /boot
tmpfs                               tmpfs  1.1G  /dev/shm
/dev/sdb                            ext3   247G  /mnt/backups
</screen>

    <para>
        The detailed steps followed to prepare the partinioning layout
        described above are described in the <citetitle>Deployment
        Guide</citetitle> provided by
        <package>Deployment_Guide-en-US-5.2-11.el5.centos</package>
        package.
    </para>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-ws-packages">

    <title>Packages Selection</title>

    <para>
        The packages selection lets you to specify which software does
        your workstation will have once it be installed. In this step,
        you need to select the following groups of packages:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
    <para>Desktop Environments</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            GNOME Desktop Environment
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            KDE (K Desktop Environment)
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>Applications</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Authoring and Publishing
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Editors
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Graphical Internet
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Graphics
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Office/Productivity
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Text-based Internet
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>Development</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Development Libraries
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Development Tools  
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            GNOME Software Development
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            KDE Software Development
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        Packages selected in this step provide a base selection of all
        the packages you need in order to have a functional working
        copy of &TCAR;. The only exception for this, is the
        <package>inkscape</package> package and some of its
        dependencies which doesn't come with &TCD; and need to be
        installed from third party repositroies like EPEL and
        RPMForge. The configuration of third party repository is done
        later, once the workstation has been installed; just as
        described in the <ulink
        url="http://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories">Repositories</ulink>
        page.
    </para>

    </sect2>

</sect1>
