<sect1 id="repo-ws-install">

    <title>Installing Your Workstation</title>

    <para>
        In order to have a working copy of &TCAR; in your workstation,
        the first step you need to follow is pick up a computer and
        install an operating system in it. This computer will be named
        the workstation from now on. 
    </para>
        
    <para>
        At the moment of chosing which operating system to install in
        your workstation, consider that &TCAR; is completly built on
        &TCD; and realies on it to achieve most automation tasks. At
        time of this writing &TCD; release 5.5 was used as platform to
        support all development work lines inside &TCAR; working copy.
        So, in order to get a reproducable environemtn, it is
        convenient that you, too, use the same version of the
        operating system that we did. 
    </para>

    <para>
        To install &TCD; you need to have access to the installation
        media somehow (e.g., CDs, DVDs, Pendrives, etc.).  If you
        don't have the installation media of &TCD;, you need to
        download the ISO files related to the installation media you
        plan to use (e.g., CD or DVD) and then create the installation
        media by yourself.  &TCD; ISO files can be downloaded from
        &TCM;.
    </para>
        

    <sect2 id="repo-ws-install-burning">
    <title>Burning The Installation Media</title>
    <para>
        Assuming you downloaded the DVD ISO of &TCD;, you can burn it
        using the <application>K3B</application> application and, this
        way, you are creating the installation media you are in need
        of.  Of course, in order to download the ISO files and create
        the installation media, you need to have a workstation already
        functionality where you can realized such tasks. If this is
        the first time for you and see yourself into much troubles
        here, talk to the guys in your nearest LUG, or simply send a
        mail to &TCML; where you'll surely have the answer you need.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Once you have the installation media on your hands, the
        installation process of &TCD; is rather straightforward. To
        begin, you put the installation media in your media reader,
        boot the computer from it, and follow the installer
        intructions till it completes all the steps. That simple.
    </para>
    </sect2>


    <sect2 id="repo-ws-install-partition">
    <title>Partition Information</title>
    <para>
        The partition information you set in your workstation is very
        specific to your personal needs and the technical
        characteristics of your machine.  The partitioning information 
        set the bases of all deployment you pretend to achieve inside
        the workstation. Generally, the default partitioning schema
        suggested by &TCD; installer is fine for most avarage
        workstations, but if you need to customize it, a complete
        description about how to do it can be found in the
        <citetitle>Deployment Guide</citetitle> provided by the
        <package>Deployment_Guide-en-US</package> package.
    </para>

    <para>
        The amount of space required to store a clean working copy of
        &TCAR; is about 1GB. Later, when you start rendering content,
        more space will be required. There is no specific space we can
        suggest since the final amount of space required depends on
        the amount of content you produce after downloading a clean
        working copy; just be sure to leave enough space to work
        (e.g., 10GB seems to be a good number) whatever your partition
        information be.
    </para>

    </sect2>

    <sect2 id="repo-ws-install-packages">

    <title>Packages Selection</title>

    <para>
        The packages selection lets you to specify which software does
        your workstation will have once it be installed. In this step,
        you need to select the following groups of packages:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
    <para>Desktop Environments</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            GNOME Desktop Environment
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            KDE (K Desktop Environment)
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>Applications</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Authoring and Publishing
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Editors
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Graphical Internet
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Graphics
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Office/Productivity
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Text-based Internet
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>Development</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Development Libraries
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Development Tools  
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            GNOME Software Development
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            KDE Software Development
        </para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        Packages selected in this step provide a base selection of all
        the packages you need in order to have a functional working
        copy of &TCAR;. The only exception for this, is the
        <package>inkscape</package> package and some of its
        dependencies which don't come with &TCD; and need to be
        installed from third party repositories like EPEL and
        RPMForge, as described in the <ulink url="http://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories">Repositories</ulink> wiki page.
    </para>

    </sect2>

</sect1>
