<sect1>

    <title>2010's</title>

    <para>
        Around 2010, the rendition script changed its name from
        <command>render.sh</command> to
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> and became a collection of
        functionalities where rendition was just one among others
        (e.g., documentation and localization).
    </para>

    <para>
        The <command>centos-art.sh</command> was initially conceived
        to automate frequent tasks inside the repository based in the
        idea of Unix toolbox: to create small and specialized tools
        that do one thing well.  This way, functionalities inside
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> began to be identified and
        separated one another. For example, when images were rendered,
        there was no need to load functionalities related to
        documentation manual. This layout moved us onto <quote>common
        functionalities</quote> and <quote>specific
        functionalities</quote> inside
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. Common
        functionalities are loaded when
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script is initiated and are
        available to specific functionalities.
    </para>

    <para>
        Suddenly, no need was found to keep all the links spreaded
        around the repository in order to execute the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script from different
        locations.  The <command>centos-art</command> command-line
        interface was used instead. The <command>centos-art</command>
        command-line interface is a symbolic link stored inside the
        <filename class="directory">~/bin</filename> directory
        pointing to <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. As
        default configuration, inside The CentOS Distribution, the
        path to <filename class="directory">~/bin</filename> is
        included in the search path for commands (see
        <envar>PATH</envar> environment variable).  This way, using
        the <command>centos-art</command> command-line interface, it
        is possible to execute the <command>centos-art.sh</command>
        script from virtually anywhere inside the workstation, just as
        we frequently do with regular commands.
    </para>

    <para>
        Start using GNU getopt as default option parser inside the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
    </para>

    <para>
        The repository directory structure was updated to improve the
        implementation of corporate visual identity concepts.
        Specially in the area related to themes. Having both structure
        and style in the same file introduced content duplication when
        producing art works.  Because of this reason, they were
        separated into two different directory structures: the design
        models and the artistic motifs directory structures.  From
        this point on, the <command>centos-art.sh</command> was able
        to produce themes as result of arbitrary combinations between
        design models (structure) and artistic motifs (visual styles).
    </para>

    <para>
        In the documentation area, the documents in LaTeX format were
        migrated to Texinfo format. In this configuration, each
        directory structure in the repository has a documentation
        entry associated in a Texinfo structure which can be read,
        edited and administered (e.g., renamed, deleted and copied)
        interactively through <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
        Additionally, the texi2html program was used to produced
        customized XHTML output in conjunction with CSS from &TCW;.
    </para>

</sect1>
