<?xml version="1.0"?>
<section>

    <title>2009</title>

    <para>The rendition script is at a very rustic state where only
    slide images can be produced.</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script was redesigned to extend image
    production to other areas, not just slide images.  In this
    configuration one translated SVG instance was created from the SVG
    file provided as input in order to produce one translated PNG
    image as output.  The translation of SVG files was made through
    SED replacement commands and the rendition of PNG images was
    realized through Inkscape command line internface.</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script was named <command>render.sh</command>.
    The directory structures were prepared to receive the rendition
    script so images could be produced inside them. Each directory
    structure had design templates (.svg), translation files (.sed),
    and translated images (.png).</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script was unified in a common place and
    linked from different directory structures. There was no need to
    have the same code in different directory structures if it could
    be in just one place and then be linked from different
    locations.</para>
    
    <para>Concepts about corporate identity began to be considered. As
    referece, it was used the book <quote>Corporate Identity</quote>
    by Wally Olins (1989) and <ulink
    url="http://en.wikipedia.org/Corporate_identity">Wikipedia</ulink>.</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script main's goal becomes to: automate
    production of a monolithic corporate visual identity structure,
    based on The CentOS Mission and The CentOS Release Schema.</para>
    
    <para>The documentation of CentOS Artwork Repository started to
    take form in LaTeX format.</para>
    
</section>
