<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repository-history-section-4" label="1.4">

    <title>2011</title>

    <para>The <command>centos-art.sh</command> script was redesigned
    to start translating SVG and other XML-based files (e.g., XHTML
    and Docbook files) through the <command>xml2po</command> program
    and shell scripts files (e.g., Bash scripts) through GNU
    <command>gettext</command> tools.  This configuration provided a
    stronger interface for graphic designers, translators and
    programmers to produce localized content. The SED files are no
    longer used to handle translations.</para>
    
    <para>Improve option parsing through
    <command>getopt</command>.</para>

    <para>Consolidate the <code>render</code>, <code>help</code> and
    <code>locale</code> functionalities as the most frequent tasks
    performed inside the repository. Additionally, the
    <code>prepare</code> and <code>tuneup</code> functionalities are
    maintained as useful tasks.</para>
    
    <para>The <command>centos-art.sh</command> script is updated to
    organize functionalities in two groups: <quote>the administrative
    functionalities</quote> and <quote>the productive
    functionalities</quote>.  The administrative functionalities cover
    actions like: copying, deleting and renaming directory structures
    inside the repository.  Also, preparing your workstation for using
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script, making backups of the
    distribution theme currently installed,  installing themes created
    inside repository and restoring themes from backup.  On the other
    hand, the productive functionalities cover actions like: content
    rendition, content localization, content documentation and content
    maintainance.</para>

</sect1>
