<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repository-history-section-3" label="1.3">

    <title>2010</title>

    <para>The rendition script <command>render.sh</command> changes to
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script, a collection of
    functionalities where rendition is one among others.  The
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> is created to organize automation
    of most frequent tasks inside the repository.  There was no need
    to have links all around the repository if a command-line
    interface can be created (through symbolic links, in the <filename
    class="directory">~/bin</filename> directory) and be called
    anywhere inside the repository as it would be usually done with
    regular commands.</para>
    
    <para>Inside <command>centos-art.sh</command>, functionalities
    started to get identified and separated one another. For example,
    when images were rendered, there was no need to load
    functionalities related to documentation manual. This moved us
    onto common functionalities and specific functionalities inside
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. Common functionalities
    are loaded when the script is initiated and are available to
    specific functionalities but not the opposite.</para>
    
    <para>The <command>centos-art.sh</command> script was redesigned
    to handle command-line options trough <command>getopt</command>
    option parser.</para>
    
    <para>The repository directory structure was updated to improve
    the implementation of concepts related to corporate visual
    identity.  Specially in the area related to themes which was
    divided into design models and artistic motifs. In this
    configuration, themes are produced as result of arbitrary
    combinations of both design models (structures) and artistic
    motifs (visual styles).</para>
    
    <para>In the documentation area, the documentation files in LaTeX
    format are migrated to Texinfo.  In this configuration, each
    directory structure in the repository has a documentation entry
    associated in a Texinfo structure which can be read, edited and
    administered (e.g., renamed, deleted, copied) interactively
    throuch <command>centos-art.sh</command>. Additionally, the
    <command>texi2html</command> program was used to produced XHTML
    output customized by CSS from The CentOS Webenv.</para>

</sect1>
