<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repository-history-section-3" label="1.3">

    <title>2010</title>

    <para>The rendition script changed its name from
    <command>render.sh</command> to <command>centos-art.sh</command>
    and became a collection of functionalities where rendition was
    just one among others (e.g., documenting and localizing).</para>
    
    <para>The <command>centos-art.sh</command> was created to organize
    automation of most frequent tasks inside the repository.  There
    was no need to have links all around the repository if a
    command-line interface could be created (through symbolic links,
    in the <filename class="directory">~/bin</filename> directory) and
    be called anywhere inside the repository as it would be a regular
    command.</para>
    
    <para>Inside <command>centos-art.sh</command>, functionalities
    started to get identified and separated one another. For example,
    when images were rendered, there was no need to load
    functionalities related to documentation manual. This layout moved
    us onto common functionalities and specific functionalities inside
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script. Common functionalities
    are loaded when <command>centos-art.sh</command> script is
    initiated and are available to specific functionalities.</para>
    
    <para>The <command>centos-art.sh</command> script was redesigned
    to handle command-line options trough <command>getopt</command>
    option parser.</para>
    
    <para>The repository directory structure was updated to improve
    the implementation of concepts related to corporate visual
    identity.  Specially in the area related to themes which were
    divided into <emphasis>design models</emphasis> and
    <emphasis>artistic motifs</emphasis> to eliminate the content
    duplication produced by having both image structure and image
    visual style in the same file. Now, themes are produced as result
    of arbitrary combinations of both design models (structures) and
    artistic motifs (visual styles).</para>
    
    <para>In the documentation area, the documentation files in LaTeX
    format were migrated to Texinfo format.  In this configuration,
    each directory structure in the repository has a documentation
    entry associated in a Texinfo structure which can be read, edited
    and administered (e.g., renamed, deleted, copied) interactively
    throuch <command>centos-art.sh</command>. Additionally, the
    <command>texi2html</command> program was used to produced XHTML
    output customized by CSS from The CentOS Webenv.</para>

</sect1>
