@subheading Goals

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subheading Description

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subheading Usage

@table @strong
@item Syslinux
Contains design models for syslinux, the program used to boot the
CentOS Distribution installation media.

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5 Syslinux}.
@end itemize

@item Anaconda  
Contains design models for Anaconda, the program used to install
CentOS Distribution.

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5
Anaconda}.
@end itemize

@item Firstboot  
Contains design models for the first boot program used to configure
the maching onece installed.  --- @strong{Removed}(xref:Directories trunk Identity Themes
Models Default Distro Firstboot) ---, for more information.

@item Rhgb
Contains design models for CentOS Graphical Boot, the program used to
show the boot process from Grub to Display Manager.  @xref{Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Rhgb}, for more
information.

@item Gdm  
Contains design models for GNOME Display Manager, the program used to
log into the manchine once installed and configured. --- @strong{Removed}(xref:Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro Gdm) ---, for more
information.

@item Kdm  
Contains design models for KDE Display Manager, the program used to
log into the manchine once installed and configured. @xref{Directories
trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5 Kdm}, for more
information.

@item Grub 
Contains design models for GRUB (Grand Unified Boot Loader), the
program used to boot the machine into an operating system.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5 Kdm}, for
more information.

@item Gsplash 
Contains design models for GNOME splash, the program used to show the
progress information while user's graphical session is loading.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5 Gsplash},
for more information.

@item Ksplash  
Contains design models for KDE splash, the program used to show the
progress information while user's graphical session is loading.
@xref{Directories trunk Identity Themes Models Default Distro 5 Ksplash},
for more information.
@end table

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize
