@subsection Goals

This section exists to organize fonts translation files.
@subsection Description

Translation files, inside @file{trunk/Translations/Fonts}, have the
following structure:

@verbatim
s!font-family:Denmark!font-family:DejaVu LGC Sans!
s!font-weight:normal!font-weight:bold!
s!font-style:normal!font-style:italic!
@end verbatim

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Fonts}, there is one translation file
for each font preview image you want to produce. This way, we create
one translation file for each font-family we use somewhere inside
CentOS visual identity.

@quotation
@strong{Important} Do not create translation files for font-families
not used somewhere inside CentOS visual identity. The font's identity
entry (@pxref{trunk Identity Fonts}) is used as reference when someone
needs to know which font-families are allowed to use inside CentOS
visual identity.
@end quotation

@subsubsection Translation Markers

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Identity/Fonts}, translation files
combine the following translation markers:

@table @samp
@item font-family:Denmark
Specify which font family to use when rendering font preview images.
@item font-weight:normal
Specify which font weight to use when rendering font preview images.
@item font-style:normal
Specify which font style to use when rendering font preview images.
@end table

@subsection Usage
@cindex How to render fonts' translation files

Inside @file{trunk/Translations/Fonts} you use your favorite text
editor to create translation files.  Inside
@file{trunk/Translations/Fonts} there is not translation template
directory (@file{Tpl/}), nor translation rendering using
@command{centos-art} script.  For example, to create the
@file{dejavu_lgc_sans-boldoblique.sed} translation file using
@command{vim} editor, type the following command:

@verbatim
vim /home/centos/artwork/trunk/Translations/Fonts/dejavu_lgc_sans-boldoblique.sed
@end verbatim

@subsection See also

@menu
* trunk Identity Fonts::
@end menu

