<section id="preface-docconvs">

    <title>Document Convenctions</title>

    <para>
        In this manual, certain words are represented in different
        fonts, typefaces, sizes, and weights. This highlighting is
        systematic; different words are represented in the same style
        to indicate their inclusion in a specific category. The types
        of words that are represented this way include the
        following:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        Additionally, we use several different strategies to draw your
        attention to certain pieces of information. In order of
        urgency, these items are marked as a note, tip, important,
        caution, or warning. For example:
    </para>

    <note>
        <para>
            Remember that Linux is case sensitive. In other words, a
            rose is not a ROSE is not a rOsE.
        </para>
    </note> 

    <tip>
        <para>
            The directory <filename
            class="directory">/usr/share/doc/</filename> contains
            additional documentation for packages installed on your
            system.
        </para>
    </tip>

    <important>
        <para>
            If you modify the DHCP configuration file, the changes do
            not take effect until you restart the DHCP daemon.
        </para>
    </important>

    <caution>
        <para>
            Do not perform routine tasks as root &mdash; use a regular
            user account unless you need to use the root account for
            system administration tasks.
        </para>
    </caution>

    <warning>
        <para>
            Be careful to remove only the necessary partitions.
            Removing other partitions could result in data loss or a
            corrupted system environment.
        </para>
    </warning>

</section>
