<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.4//EN"
               "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.4/docbookx.dtd">

<article>
    <articleinfo>
        <title>Mozilla Firefox</title>
        <subtitle>Website Services Agreement</subtitle>
        <legalnotice>
        <para>
            The accompanying version of Mozilla Firefox utilizes
            website information services (<quote>Services</quote>),
            such as safe-browsing features, which are provided by the
            Mozilla Corporation and made available to you under
            additional terms.  By using the Services, you consent to
            the terms of the referenced Mozilla Firefox Website
            Services Agreement.
        </para>
        </legalnotice>
    </articleinfo>

    <para>
        If you do not agree to these terms, do not use the Services
        and disable the Services in <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> &gt;
        <guimenuitem>Preferences</guimenuitem> &gt;
        <guimenuitem>Security</guimenuitem> and uncheck the options
        for both: <quote>Tell me if the site I'm visiting is a
        suspected attack site</quote> and <quote>Tell me if the site
        I'm visiting is a suspected forgery</quote>.
    </para>

    <sect1>

    <title>Version 3.0, June 2008</title>

    <para>
        During the Mozilla Firefox installation process, and at later
        times, you may be given the option of installing additional
        components from third-party software providers.  The
        installation and use of those third-party components may be
        governed by additional license agreements.
    </para>

    <para>
        In this Mozilla Firefox Website Services Agreement
        (<quote>Agreement</quote>), the accompanying executable
        version of Mozilla Firefox shall be referred to as <quote>the
        Product</quote>.
    </para>

    <para>
        The Product utilizes website information services
        (<quote>Services</quote>), such as safe-browsing features,
        which are provided by the Mozilla Corporation
        (<quote>Mozilla</quote>) and made available to you subject to
        the terms below. By using the Services, you consent to the
        terms of this Agreement. If you do not agree to the terms of
        this Agreement, do not use the Services and disable the
        Services in the preferences/security menu.  
    </para>

    <sect2>
    <title>Use Of Service</title>
    
    <para> 
        Mozilla permits you to use the Services via the Product.  This
        Agreement will also govern the use of Services made available
        to you as a result of your installing any executable software
        upgrades to the Product provided to you by CentOS, where those
        Services replace and/or supplement the Services provided
        through use of the Product.  In such a case, <quote>the
        Product</quote> shall also refer to such installed upgrades.
        However, if such upgrades are accompanied by a separate
        agreement from Mozilla, the terms of that agreement will
        govern.
    </para>
    
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Termination</title>
    <para>
       If you breach this Agreement your right to use the Services
       will terminate immediately and without notice, but all
       provisions of this Agreement except the Use of Services
       (Paragraph 1) will survive termination and continue in effect.  
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Proprietary Rights</title>
    <para>
        Subject to this Agreement and to all applicable licensing
        terms governing your use of the Product, Mozilla, for itself
        and on behalf of its licensors, hereby reserves all
        intellectual property rights in the Services, except for the
        rights expressly granted in this Agreement.  You may not
        remove or alter any trademark, logo, copyright or other
        proprietary notice in or on the Product.  This agreement does
        not grant you any right to use the trademarks, service marks
        or logos of Mozilla or its licensors.  Nothing in this
        Agreement shall be construed to limit any rights granted under
        open source licenses applicable to the Product and to
        corresponding source code versions of the Product.  
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Privacy Policy</title>
    <para>
        The Mozilla Firefox Privacy Policy is made available online at
        <ulink url="http://www.mozilla.com/legal/privacy/" />, as that
        policy may be updated from time to time. 
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Website Information Services</title>
    <para>
        Mozilla and its contributors, licensors and partners work to
        provide the most accurate and up-to-date phishing and malware
        information. However, they cannot guarantee that this
        information is comprehensive and error-free: some risky sites
        may not be identified, and some safe sites may be identified
        in error.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Disclaimer Of Warranty</title>
    <para>
        The product and services are provided <quote>as is</quote>
        with all faults.  to the extent permitted by law, mozilla and
        mozilla's distributors, and licensors hereby disclaim all
        warranties, whether express or implied, including without
        limitation warranties that the product and services are free
        of defects, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose and
        non-infringing.  you bear the entire risk as to selecting the
        product and services for your purposes and as to the quality
        and performance of the product and services.  this limitation
        will apply notwithstanding the failure of essential purpose of
        any remedy.  some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or
        limitation of implied warranties, so this disclaimer may not
        apply to you.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Limitation Of Liability</title>
    <para>
        Except as required by law, mozilla and its distributors,
        directors, licensors, contributors and agents (collectively,
        the <quote>mozilla group</quote>) will not be liable for any
        indirect, special, incidental, consequential or exemplary
        damages arising out of or in any way relating to this
        agreement or the use of or inability to use the product and
        the services, including without limitation damages for loss of
        goodwill, work stoppage, lost profits, loss of data, and
        computer failure or malfunction, even if advised of the
        possibility of such damages and regardless of the theory
        (contract, tort or otherwise) upon which such claim is based.
        the mozilla group's collective liability under this agreement
        will not exceed the greater of $500 (five hundred dollars) and
        the fees paid by you under the license (if any).  Some
        jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of
        incidental, consequential or special damages, so this
        exclusion and limitation may not apply to you.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>U.S. Goverment End-Users</title>
    <para>
        This Product is a <quote>commercial item,</quote> as that term
        is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101, consisting of <quote>commercial
        computer software</quote> and <quote>commercial computer
        software documentation,</quote> as such terms are used in 48
        C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995) and 48 C.F.R.  227.7202 (June
        1995).  Consistent with 48 C.F.R.  12.212, 48 C.F.R.
        27.405(b)(2) (June 1998) and 48 C.F.R.  227.7202, all U.S.
        Government End Users acquire the Product with only those
        rights as set forth therein.
    </para>
    </sect2>

    <sect2>
    <title>Miscellaneous</title>

    <orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between
        Mozilla and you concerning the subject matter hereof, and it
        may only be modified by a written amendment signed by an
        authorized executive of Mozilla.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides
        otherwise, this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the
        state of California, U.S.A., excluding its conflict of law
        provisions.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This Agreement will not be governed by the United Nations
        Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        If any part of this Agreement is held invalid or
        unenforceable, that part will be construed to reflect the
        parties' original intent, and the remaining portions will
        remain in full force and effect
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        A waiver by either party of any term or condition of this
        Agreement or any breach thereof, in any one instance, will not
        waive such term or condition or any subsequent breach thereof.  
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        Except as required by law, the controlling language of this
        Agreement is English. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        You may assign your rights under this Agreement to any party
        that consents to, and agrees to be bound by, its terms; the
        Mozilla Corporation may assign its rights under this Agreement
        without condition.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit
        of the parties, their successors and permitted assigns.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    </sect2>

    </sect1>

</article>
