<section id="repo-convs-directories">

    <title>Repository Directory Structure</title>

    <para>
        This section describes the directory structure of &TCAR;. You
        can use this section as reference to know where the files you
        are looking at are stored in and where you can store new
        files, as well.  This section organizes directories'
        description using the same hierarchy the repository has. This
        section begins describing the first level of directories in
        the repository and continues with each relevant sub-directory
        in the hierarchy, one by one.
    </para>

    <para>
        The directory structure this section describes is based on the
        document <quote><emphasis>&TCAR; Directory
        Structure</emphasis>,</quote> available at:
        <filename>Documentation/Models/Svg/Repository/directory-structure.svgz</filename>
    </para>

    <section id="repo-convs-directories-artworks">
    <title>The <filename class="directory">Artworks</filename> Directory</title>
    <para>
        This directory contains the files used to produce the
        corporate visual identity of &TCP;. The information in this
        directory is organized in Brushes, Gradients, Fonts, Images,
        Models, Palettes, Patterns and Webenv directories.
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Brushes/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains GIMP brushes. Brushes stored in this
        directory will be available inside GIMP's brushes dialog.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Patterns/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains GIMP patterns. Patterns stored in this
        directory will be available inside GIMP's patterns dialog.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Gradients/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains GIMP gradients. Gradients stored in
        this directory will be available inside GIMP's gradients
        dialog.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Fonts/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains font files. Font files stored in this
        directory will be available to be used from applications like
        GIMP and Inkscape. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains final images. The directory structure
        used to organize files here is rather similar to that used in
        <filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/</filename>
        directory structure.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains image files rendered from design
        models that use theme background images.  In this location you
        can also find design models used to create the background
        images, too.
    </para>
    <caution>
    <para>
        Design models used to build themes' background images must not
        be moved to <filename
        class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/</filename> directory
        structure. Design models used to build themes' background
        images are theme-specific, so they must be inside <filename
        class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/</filename> directory
        structure.
    </para>
    </caution>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme directory structure
            organized in version number. Here, ${THEME_NAME} is a
            string of letters representing the name of the theme. In
            this string, all letters are written in lowercase except
            the first one which must be written in uppercase.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains the theme directory structure
            organized in theme components. Here, ${THEME_VERSION} is a
            string with the form M.N, where M and N are integer
            numbers from 0 to 9. M is required and .N is optional.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Backgrounds/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific background images
            and design models used to build them. This directory is a
            key component of theme concept. It provides background
            images to different sizes which are use on different theme
            components, as defined by theme design models stored at
            <filename
            class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes</filename>
            directory.
        </para>

        <table id="repo-convs-directories-tb1">
        <title>Theme-specific background files</title>
        <tgroup cols='2' align='left' colsep='1' rowsep='1'>
        <thead>
            <row>
                <entry>Images/</entry>
                <entry>Models/</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>160x600-final.png</filename>, <filename>160x600-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>160x600-final.svgz</filename>, 
                <filename>160x600-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 160x600 pixels, used to
                produce the left-side bar of <quote>Firstboot</quote>
                theme component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>200x150-final.png</filename>, <filename>200x150-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>200x150-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>200x150-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 200x150 pixels, used to produce
                the screenshot of both
                <quote>Gdm</quote> and <quote>Kdm</quote> theme
                components.
                </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>400x300-final.png</filename>, <filename>400x300-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>400x300-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>400x300-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 400x300 pixels, used to
                produce the splash component of both
                <quote>Gnome</quote> and <quote>Kde</quote> theme
                components.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>490x200-final.png</filename>, <filename>490x200-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>490x200-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>490x200-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 490x200 pixels, used to
                produce the splash image of <quote>Anaconda</quote>
                theme component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>510x300-final.png</filename>, <filename>510x300-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>510x300-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>510x300-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 510x300 pixels, used to
                produce the slide images of <quote>Anaconda</quote> theme component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>640x300-final.png</filename>, <filename>640x300-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>640x300-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>640x300-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 640x300 pixels, used to
                produce the splash image of <quote>Syslinux</quote>
                theme component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>640x480-final.png</filename>, <filename>640x480-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>640x480-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>640x480-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 640x480 pixels, used to
                produce the splash image of <quote>Grub</quote> theme
                component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>744x1052-final.png</filename>, <filename>744x1052-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>744x1052-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>744x1052-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 744x1052 pixels, used to
                produce the <quote>Posters</quote> theme components.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>800x600-final.png</filename>, <filename>800x600-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>800x600-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>800x600-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 800x600 pixels, used to
                produce the <quote>Concept</quote> theme component.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
                <entry><filename>800x88-final.png</filename>, <filename>800x88-final.jpg</filename></entry>
                <entry><filename>800x88-final.svgz</filename>, <filename>800x88-final.xcf</filename></entry>
                <entry>Graphic design at 800x88 pixels, used to
                produce the heading image of <quote>Anaconda</quote>
                theme component.</entry>
            </row>
        </tbody>
        </tgroup>
        </table>

        <para>
            Besides background files described in <xref
            linkend="repo-convs-directories-tb1" />, you'll also find
            background files for specific screen resolutions. The
            number of files you find here may vary depending the
            screen resolutions demanded by &TCD; at <filename
            class="directory">/usr/share/backgrounds/</filename>.
            Resolution-specific background files follow the same name
            convention described in the table above but change the
            resolution numbers to show the screen resolution they
            represent (e.g., <filename>1360x768-final.png</filename>
            for 1360x768 screen resolutions.).
        </para>
        <para>
            The word <quote>-final</quote> is used on background files
            to mark them as ready for applying. When you design
            background images, you might need to create intermediate
            images so as to reach desired effects by combining them
            into a final one. Such intermediate images do not use the
            word <quote>-final</quote>. Only the result of all your
            combinations and tests must have the word
            <quote>-final</quote> on its name.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Backgrounds/Images/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific background images,
            mostly in PNG and JPG formats.  The files in this
            directory are used by <command>centos-art.sh</command>
            script to produce theme components. The relation between
            image files and theme component is described in <xref
            linkend="repo-convs-directories-tb1" />.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Backgrounds/Models/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific background design
            models, mostly in SVGZ and XCF formats.  The files in this
            directory are used to produce theme-specific background
            images, only.
        </para>
        <para>
            Design models in this directory must not be confused with
            design models stored in <filename
            class="directory">Artworks/Models/Theme/</filename>
            directory. Design models stored in this directory are
            theme-specific while design models stored in <filename
            class="directory">Artworks/Models/Theme/</filename> are
            common to all themes.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Concept/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific conceptual ideas.
            The images in this directory can be used to present the
            theme's artistic motif in the community. These images
            include can include theme name, theme version, theme
            author, theme license, theme copyright and similar
            information.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Distro/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific images for each
            component of &TCD;. In this location, images are organized
            in distribution major release, distribution component and
            language, if the current locale is different from English
            language.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Gradients/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific GIMP gradients.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Palettes/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific GIMP palettes.
            The centos-art.sh script uses theme-specific palettes to produce indexed
            images with reduced number of colors used by specific
            theme components, like <quote>Syslinux</quote> and
            <quote>Grub</quote>. These components have specific color
            requirements which we must comply with.
        </para>

        <para>
            <xref linkend="repo-convs-directories-tb2" />, describes
            the palettes files used inside themes and the number of
            colors they require.
        </para>

        <table id="repo-convs-directories-tb2">
        <title>Theme-specific palette files</title>
        <tgroup cols='2' align='left' colsep='1' rowsep='1'>
        <thead>
            <row>
                <entry>File</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
        <row>
            <entry><filename>syslinux.gpl</filename></entry>
            <entry>
                This palette is used to produce Syslinux final image.
                This palette must be created to hold 16 colors using GIMP's
                palette format. Inside the palette file, the color
                information is organized in an index that begins at 0
                and ends at 15. In this index, the color information
                set at position 0 must be the background color used in
                the image (e.g., the darkest color in the list) and
                the color information set at position 7 must be the
                foreground color used in the image (e.g., the lightest
                color in the list).
            </entry>
        </row>
        <row>
            <entry><filename>grub.gpl</filename></entry>
            <entry>This palette is used to produce Grub final image.
            This palette must be created to hold 14 colors using
            GIMP's palette format. Inside the palette file, color
            information can be set in any order.</entry>
        </row>
        </tbody>
        </tgroup>
        </table>

        <tip>
        <para>
            To produce optimum palettes of colors, open with GIMP the
            full-colored PNG image you need to reduce colors to and
            reduce colors using GIMP's indexing tool at
            <guimenuitem>Mode</guimenuitem> &#8594;
            <guimenuitem>Indexed...</guimenuitem> from
            <guimenu>Image</guimenu> menu.  Later, you import the set
            of colors into a new palette using the GIMP palettes
            editor and save it here. This way, you can grantee
            <command>centos-art.sh</command> script will use the
            correct color information when it produces images with
            reduced colors for theme-specific components. 
        </para>
        </tip>

        <caution>
        <para>
            When you create theme-specific palettes, it is necessary
            that you fill the comment field of palette file using the
            related color information in hexadecimal format.
            Otherwise, centos-art.sh script won't be able to realize
            image conversion from PNG to LSS format.
        </para>
        </caution>

        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Patterns/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific GIMP patterns.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Screenshots/</filename></term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This directory contains theme-specific screenshots. It is
            a series of images illustrating the theme already in
            place. Here you'll find one screenshot for each relevant
            component inside &TCD;.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models (e.g., scalable vector
        graphics using the <filename
        class="extension">.svgz</filename> extension) and image
        configuration files (e.g., plain text using the <filename
        class="extension">.conf</filename> extension) used by
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to produce images
        inside <filename
        class="directory">Artworks/Images/</filename>. Relevant
        components inside this directory include Brands, Icons, Themes
        and Webenv.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Brands/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory organizes branding information for &TCP;.
        Relevant components inside this directory include Logos/,
        Symbols/, and Types/ directories. If you need to tune up &TCP;
        branding information, this is the directory you need to go to. 
        To know more about &TCB;, see <xref linkend="identity-brand" />.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Icons/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory organizes icon design models for &TCP;.  By
        default, &TCD; uses the same icons set packaged inside the
        SRPMs the upstream provider makes available. Only icons related
        to branding information are changed in order to identify
        &TCP; and comply with upstream redistribution guidelines. This
        directory is not very used by now, it presently contains
        design models for Tango's icons set.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models organized by categories.
        When you are producing theme-specific images, you can use the
        option <option>--theme-model</option> to instruct the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script what of these
        categories you want to use as reference to produce
        theme-specific images.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains default design models used to produce
        theme-specific images, when the
        <option>--theme-option</option> is not provided to
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script at theme-specific
        images rendition time.  This directory is also used as
        reference by <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to build
        the theme-specific directory structures inside <filename
        class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/</filename>
        directory, when the <xref linkend="scripts-bash-prepare" />
        functionality is executed.  So, if you find that some
        directories in this location are empty, don't remove them.
        They should be present in order for
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to prepare
        theme-specific directory structures correctly.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Concept/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models used to produce the
        conceptual presentation of each theme. This is a 800x600px
        image that illustrate the background artistic motif along the
        license and copyright information. All images produced from
        this design model use the CC-SA license and &TCP; as copyright
        holder.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Distro/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models used to produce the
        visual style of each component inside &TCD; for all its major
        releases. The first sub-directory level under this directory
        will contain the major release which components will be
        produced for. Inside the release-specific directory you will
        find one directory for each related distribution component,
        including <application>Grub</application>,
        <application>Anaconda</application>,
        <application>Gdm</application>,
        <application>Syslinux</application>,
        <application>Firstboot</application> and others.
    </para>

    <para>
        The components you find inside &TCD; may vary from one major
        release to another. They might be added or removed as required
        in each new major release. Thus, it is very important to keep
        the relation between components and major releases accurate
        inside this directory.
    </para>

    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Media/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models used to produce visual
        style for installation media, including CDs, DVDs, LiveCDs and
        LiveDVDs. We don't use release-specific directories in this
        location because it is determined automatically from the
        <filename>/etc/redhat-release</filename> file or the
        <option>--releasever</option> option through the command-line
        of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Palettes/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains the palettes of colors used by
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script when no one is found
        inside <filename
        class="directory">Artworks/Images/Themes/${THEME_NAME}/${THEME_VERSION}/Palettes/</filename>
        directory.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Gradients/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory is empty. It is used to build theme-specific
        directory structures. Don't remove it.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Patterns/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory is empty. It is used to build theme-specific
        directory structures. Don't remove it.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Themes/Default/Posters/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains design models used by
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to produce posters.
        Posters are promotional stuff, generally printed in different
        media and sizes to be shown on events.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Models/Webenv/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains common design models used by &TCWE;.
        These images include, admonition icons, heading backgrounds,
        html backgrounds, admonition backgrounds and whatever
        graphical information &TCWE; could need.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Palettes/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains GIMP palettes that you always want to
        have available in GIMP sessions.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Patterns/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains GIMP patterns that you always want to
        have available in GIMP sessions.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Artworks/Webenv/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains customizations for specific web
        applications.  The kind of files you find here vary from one
        web application to another. Generally, you find <filename
        class="extension">.css</filename> and <filename
        class="extension">.html</filename> files here. Relevant
        components inside this directory include Docbook, Httpd,
        Mantis, Moin, PhpBB, Punbb, Puntal, Style-guide, Texi2html and
        Trac.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-directories-documentation">
    <title>The <filename class="directory">Documentation</filename> Directory</title>
    <para>
        This directory contains documentation related to &TCAR;
        written in different formats. This directory is organized in
        Models and Manuals. Models contain the documentation source
        files and Manuals the final documentation ready to be read
        through different media (e.g., online and paper). Here, the
        language used to write documentation manuals is English.
    </para>

    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Documentation/Models/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains documentation source formats used
        inside &TCAR;.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Documentation/Models/${MANUAL_FORMAT}/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains documentation manuals' name for
        specific documentation formats.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Documentation/Models/${MANUAL_FORMAT}/${MANUAL_NAME}/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory contains the documentation manual directory
        structure. Here is where source files are stored in. If you
        want to modify content from a documentation manual, this is
        the directory level you need to go to. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term><filename class="directory">Documentation/Manuals/</filename></term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This directory organizes documentation final files, organized
        by documentation format, documentation manual name and
        documentation language, if documentation files were produced
        to a language different from English.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    </variablelist>

    <para>
        Several documentation formats have been used to write &TCAR;
        documentation manuals through time, including
        <application>Texinfo</application>,
        <application>LaTeX</application> and finally
        <application>DocBook</application>.  From these documentation
        formats, DocBook is addressed to be the one adopted in the
        near future as default documentation format inside &TCAR;.
        Support for other documentation formats will remain inside
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script without further
        improvements. This in order to dedicate more attention to
        DocBook documentation format.
    </para>

    <para>
        The directory structure used by each documentation format is
        not described in this section. To know more about
        documentation formats and the directory structure used by
        documentation manuals, read <xref linkend="manuals-formats"
        />.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-directories-localization">
    <title>The <filename class="directory">Localization</filename> Directory</title>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-directories-automation">
    <title>The <filename class="directory">Automation</filename> Directory</title>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-directories-packages">
    <title>The <filename class="directory">Packages</filename> Directory</title>
    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </section>

</section>
