<section id="repo-convs-worklines">

    <title>Repository Work Lines</title>

    <para>
        The content production inside &TCAR; has been divided into
        individual work lines that relate one another based on the
        idea of doing one thing well. In this model, the content
        produced individually by each work line is combined one
        another later to achieve higher purposes (e.g., corporate
        identity for &TCP;). The repository work lines, as conceived
        here, provide a reliable environment for people to work
        synchronized and decentralized.
    </para>

    <para>
        The action of combining work lines inside &TCAR; is also known
        as the <quote>Production Cycle</quote> of CentOS corporate
        visual identity. The rest of this section describes the work
        lines available in the repository and how they integrate one
        another.
    </para>

    <section id="repo-convs-worklines-artworks">

    <title>Artworks</title>

    <para>
        <emphasis>Artworks</emphasis> is the first component we work
        out in order to produce new corporate visual identities.
        Through this work line, graphic designers create
        <quote>models</quote> and <quote>motifs</quote> for all the
        visual manifestation &TCP; is made of.  Once design models and
        artistic motifs are set in place, graphic designers use the
        <xref linkend="scripts-bash-render" /> functionality to
        combine them into final images.
    </para>

    <para>
        The mission of <emphasis>Artworks</emphasis> work line is
        define all the visual manifestations the &TCP; is made of and
        provide design models and artistic motifs for them in order to
        produce the image files required to transmit the visual style
        that identifies &TCP; as unique organization.
    </para>

    <para>
        To know more about &TCPCVI;, read <xref linkend="identity" />.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-worklines-l10n">

    <title>Localization</title>

    <para>
        <emphasis>Localization</emphasis> is the second component that
        must be worked out in the production cycle of CentOS corporate
        visual identity.  Through this work line translators localize
        source files (e.g., SVG, DocBook, Shell scripts) which are
        later used to produce localized images, localized
        documentation and localized automation scripts.  To localize
        source files, translators use the <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-locale" /> functionality which takes
        care of retrieving translatable strings from source files and
        provide a consistent localization interface based on GNU
        <application>gettext</application> multi-lingual message
        production tool set and <command>xml2po</command> command.
    </para>

    <para>
        The localization process takes place inside the
        <quote><filename
        class="directory">Localization/</filename></quote> directory
        in the first level of each repository directory structure.
        This directory mirrors the renderable directory structures
        outside it and stores <filename
        class="extension">.po</filename> and <filename
        class="extension">.pot</filename> files mainly.
    </para>

    <para>
        The mission of <emphasis>Localization</emphasis> work line is
        extend the visual identity (produced in English language) to
        as many native languages as possible, in order for people
        which doesn't understand English language to feel more
        comfortable with &TCP; in their own native languages.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        To know more about the specific localization process read
        <xref linkend="locale" />.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-worklines-manuals">

    <title>Documentation</title>

    <para>
        The documentation work line is the third component that must
        be worked out in the corporate identity production cycle.
        Through this work line documentors settle down the conceptual
        and practical used to edificate &TCAR;.  To write
        documentation, documentors use the <function>help</function>
        functionality described in <xref linkend="scripts-bash-help"
        /> which provides a consistent interface for building
        documentation through different documentation backends (e.g.,
        Texinfo, DocBook, LaTeX, etc.).
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is describe the standard
        procedures &TCAR; realies on, as well as conceive a place to
        help you understand what &TCAR; is and what can you do with
        it.
    </para>

    <para>
        The documentation work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/~al/artwork.git/Manuals"><filename
        class="directory">Manuals</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-worklines-packages">
    <title>Packages</title>

    <para>
        The packages work line is the fourth component that must be
        worked out in the corporate identity production cycle. Through
        this work line packager gather final images, final
        translations and final documentation related to art works and
        put all together inside RPM packages. For this purpose,
        packagers use the <function>pack</function> describe in
        <xref linkend="scripts-bash-pack" /> which provides a
        consistent interface for building packages inside the
        repository.
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is pack all the information
        &TCP; requires to rebrand &TCD; according Red Hat
        redistribution guidelines.
    </para>

    <para>
        The packages work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/~al/artwork.git/Packages"><filename
        class="directory">Packages</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </section>

    <section id="repo-convs-worklines-scripts">

    <title>Automation</title>

    <para>
        The automation work line is the fifth and last component that
        must be worked out in the corporate identity production cycle.
        This work line closes the production cycle and provides the
        production standards graphic designers, documentors,
        translators and packagers need to make their work consistent
        and reusable.  For this purpose, programmers develop the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script described in <xref
        linkend="scripts" />.
    </para>

    <para>
        The main purpose of this work line is standardize the
        interaction of work lines in a reliable way.
    </para>

    <para>
        The automation work line takes palce in the <ulink
        url="https://projects.centos.org/~al/artwork.git/Scripts"><filename
        class="directory">Scripts</filename></ulink> directory.
    </para>

    </section>

</section>
