<section id="repository-history-2013">

    <title>2013's</title>

    <para>
        &TCAR; development was eventually stopped at November, 2012,
        when I moved myself from Cienfuegos to Havana city for working
        The first months were very difficult, specially at the moment
        of finding a stable place to set my personal desktop (I was
        moving myself from one apartment to another, frequently).
    </para>

    <para>
        On May 14th, the work in Havana ends for me and I have to
        return to Cienfuegos city. I tried to take advantage of the
        situation dedicating more work and study hours to &TCAR; and
        the related automation scripts once again. At this point I
        consider a Git+Gitolite+Gitweb+MantisBT infrastructure for
        &TCAR; and start working on it in my workstation. This, in
        order to implement a distributed work flow for &TCAR; based on
        Git version control system.
    </para>

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-VersionControl">
    <title>Update Version Control Environment</title>
    <para>
        The function environment related to version control tasks was
        renamed from <function>svn</function> to <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-vcs" /> in order to handle both
        <application>Subversion</application> and
        <application>Git</application> working copies of &TCAR;. This
        change prepares the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to
        follow the suggestion of a complete migration from
        <application>Subversion</application> to
        <application>Git</application>, at some point.
    </para>

    <para>
        Because the <application>Subversion</application>
        infrastructure is the one in place right now and it is the one
        with most artwork history, it will be
        <application>Subversion</application> the version control
        system we are using as default in
        <filename>centos-art.sh</filename>.  However this will surely
        change as soon as a <application>Git</application>
        infrastructure be approved for &TCAR; and everything could be
        moved there.
    </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-ConfigurationFile">
    <title>Start Using The <filename>centos-art.conf</filename> File</title>
    <para>
        Based on the need of supporting more than one application to
        handle version control tasks, it was added the
        <filename>centos-art.conf</filename> file into the <filename
        class="directory">Scripts/Bash</filename> directory. This file
        exists to customize specific behaviours of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script once it has been
        executed (e.g., what kind of application will be used as
        default for doing version control, or even if the actions
        related to version control will be performed or not). 
    </para>
    </simplesect>


    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-UpdateRepositoryLayout">
    <title>Update Repository Directories Structure</title>
    <para>
        I face the following situation: I am working on a
        documentation project named <quote>solinfo-network</quote>.
        While I was organizing it, I found that the directory
        structure of &TCAR; fits quite well the needs of
        <quote>solinfo-network</quote> documentation project. However,
        I don't want to duplicate automation scripts in two separate
        projects, but share them between themselves (i.e., changes
        committed to automation scripts are pushed to one single
        place, not two.).
    </para>
    <para>
        When we use Subversion repositories, it is possible to
        checkout specific parts of different repositories into a new
        repository. This is very useful if we need to create several
        projects that share the same component and we don't want to
        duplicate the common component in two or more different
        projects but <quote>share</quote> it between them. See
        <xref linkend="repository-history-2012-UpdateLocales" />. 
    </para>

    <para>
        When we use Git repository, it is not possible to checkout
        specific parts of a repository but the complete tree. So, in
        order to share common components of a repository we need to
        create one repository for each common component we want to
        share and then use Git submodules<citation>see progit-book,
        page 152.</citation>  This requires that brand new
        repositories be created for each component we want to share.
    </para>

    <para>
        In both situations, including Git and Subversion repositories,
        it is necessary that we define very well the structure of each
        component we want to share, so it can be
        <quote>plugged</quote> nicely into other projects. Likewise,
        other projects must have the same directory structure the
        pluggable component was design to fit in. If these two
        conditions can be reached, it would be possible to reuse
        repositories components and concentrate efforts.  The current
        directory structure &TCAR; is set in allows components inside
        Subversion repositories to be reused by related working
        copies. However, we cannot do the same if it is stored in a
        Git repository.  In order for Git repositories to be able to
        share components with other Git repositories, &TCAR; directory
        structure needs to be reorganized to better delineate each
        component the repository is made of.
    </para>

    <para>
        For more information see <xref linkend="repo-convs" />.
    </para>

    </simplesect>

    <!--

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-UpdateDocbookStructure">
    <title>Update DocBook Physical Divisions</title>
    <para>
        The main purpose of this update is changing the main physical
        division of DocBook documents from entities to XInclude. This
        change affects both <xref linkend="scripts-bash-render"/> and
        <xref linkend="scripts-bash-locale" /> functionalities.
    </para>

    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </simplesect>
    -->

</section>
