@subsection Goals

This directory implements the Subversion's trunk concept in a
trunk, branches, tags repository structure.

@subsection Description

The @file{trunk/} directory structure is the main development line
inside the CentOS Artwork Repository and organizes the following
sections:

@table @strong
@item Identity
This section organizes image production in different formats and some
non-image formats like XHTML and text files, as well. This is the
perfect place to consolidate @emph{The CentOS Artwork SIG}. If you are
interested in producing art works for The CentOS Project, this place
is for you. 

@xref{Directories trunk Identity}, for more information.

@item Manual
This section organizes the @emph{CentOS Artwork Repository Manual}
(i.e., the documentation manual you're reading right now).  If you are
interested on improving The CentOS Artwork Repository Manual, in this
place you'll find the Texinfo documentation structure you need to work
with.

@xref{Directories trunk Manual}, for more information.

@item Scripts
This section organizes production of automation scripts specially
designed to automate most frequent tasks in the repository (e.g.,
image rendition, documenting directory structures, translating
content, etc.).  If you can't resist the idea of automating repeatable
tasks, then take a look here.

@xref{Directories trunk Scripts}, for more information.

@item Locales
This section organizes production of translation messages for
@emph{Identity}, @emph{Documentation} and @emph{Scripts}. This place
is perfect to consolidate @emph{The CentOS Translation SIG}. If you
love translating, you'll find lot of messages waiting for you to
translate here.  

@xref{Directories trunk Identity Locales}, for more information.
@end table

@subsection Usage

It seems to be no other use for this directory but to organize the
sections described above.

@subsection See also

@itemize
@item @xref{Directories branches}.
@item @xref{Directories tags}.
@item Subversion's book (@url{http://svnbook.red-bean.com/}).
@end itemize

