<sect1 id="intro-repoconvs-extending">

    <title>Extending Repository Organization</title>
        
    <para>
        Occasionly, you may find that new components of The
        CentOS Project corporate visual identity need to be added to
        the repository in order to work them out. If that is the case,
        the first question we need to ask ourselves, before start to
        create directories blindly all over, is: <emphasis>What is the
        right place to store it?</emphasis>
    </para>
        
    <para>
        The best place to find answers is in The CentOS Community (see
        page http://wiki.centos.org/Help), but going there with hands
        empty is not good idea. It may give the impression you don't
        really care about. Instead, consider the following suggestions
        to find your own comprehension in order to make your own
        propositions based on it.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        When extending respository structure it is very useful to bear
        in mind The CentOS Project corporate visual identity
        structure, The CentOS Mission and The CentOS Release Schema.
        The rest is a matter of choosing appropriate names. It is also
        worth to know that each directory in the repository responds
        to a conceptual idea that justifies its existence.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        To build a directory structure inside the repository, you need
        to define the conceptual idea first and later create the
        directory, remembering that there are locations inside the
        repository that define conceptual ideas you probably would
        prefer to reuse.  For example, the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Themes</filename>
        directory stores theme artistic motifs, the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes</filename>
        directory stores theme design models, the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> directory stores
        documentation files, the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename> stores translation
        messages, and the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Scripts</filename> stores automation
        scripts.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        To better illustrate this desition process, you can consider
        to examin the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Themes/TreeFlower/3</filename>
        directory structure as example.  This directory can be read
        as: the theme development line of version <quote>3</quote> of
        <quote>TreeFlower</quote> artistic motif.  Additional, we can
        say that <quote>TreeFlower</quote> artistic motif is part of
        themes, as themes are part of The CentOS Project corporate
        visual identity.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        The relationship between conceptual ideas can be stablished by
        reading each repository documentation entry individually, from
        <filename class="directory">trunk</filename> directory to a
        deeper directory in the path. For reading repository
        documentation entries we use the <code>help</code>
        functionality of <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.
    </para>
        
</sect1>
