<sect1 id="intro-repoconvs-policy">
        
    <title>Policy</title>
        
    <para>
        The CentOS Artwork Repository is a collaborative tool that
        anyone can have access to. However, changing that tool in any
        form is something that should be requested in &TCDML;.
        Generally, people download working copies of &TCAR; to study
        its organization, make local changes, test the changes really
        work the way expected and finally, request access to commit
        them up to &TCAR; for others to benefit from them.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Once you've received access to commit your changes, there is
        no need for you to request permission again to commit other
        changes from your working copy to &TCAR; as long as you behave
        as a <emphasis>good cooperating citizen</emphasis>.
        Otherwise, your rights to commit changes might be temporarly
        revoked or permanently banished.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        As a good cooperating citizen one understand of a person who
        respects the work already done by others and share ideas with
        authors before changing relevant parts of their work,
        specially in situations when the access required to realize
        the changes has been granted already.  Of course, there is a
        time when conversation has taken place, the paths has been
        traced and changing the work is so obvious that there is no
        need for you to talk about it; that's because you already did,
        you already built the trust to keep going. As complement, the
        mailing list mentioned above is available for sharing ideas in
        a way that good relationship between community citizens could
        be constantly balanced.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        The relationship between community citizens is monitored by
        repository administrators. Repository administrators are
        responsible of granting that everything goes the way it needs
        to go in order for &TCAR; to accomplish its mission which is:
        to provide a colaborative tool for &TCC; where &TCPCVI; could
        be built and maintained by &TCC; itself.
    </para>
     
    <para>
        The content produced inside &TCAR; is copyright of &TCAS;.
        This way, we (&TCAS;) can say that all content produced inside
        &TCAR; must comply the terms of <xref linkend="licenses-gpl"
        /> or <xref linkend="licenses-gfdl" /> in order for them to
        remain inside the repository. With this disposition set, the
        bases of our community are founded to provide you, as author,
        the greatest benefit possible for creating and sharing your
        work in freedoom.
    </para>

    <para>
        Finally, we believe that working together is far better than
        working alone; eventhough somtimes, working alone is the only
        possible way of reaching that state of glory which is to work
        syncronized all together in freedom.
    </para>

</sect1>
