<sect1 id="intro-repoconvs-relbdirs">

    <title>Relation Between Directories</title>

    <para>
        In order for automation scripts to produce content inside a
        working copy of &TCAR;, it is required that all work lines be
        related somehow.  The relation is used by automation scripts
        to know where to retrive the information they need to work
        with (e.g., design model, translation messages, output
        locations, etc.).  This kind of relation is built using two
        path constructions named <emphasis>master paths</emphasis> and
        <emphasis>auxiliar paths</emphasis>.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        The master path points only to directories that contain source
        files (e.g., SVG files) required to produce output base
        content (e.g., PNG files) through automation scripts.  Each
        master path inside the repository may have several auxiliar
        paths associated, but auxiliar paths can only have one master
        path associated.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Master paths used for producing images through SVG rendition
        are organized under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models</filename> directory
        structure and the auxiliar paths under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images</filename>, <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename> and <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> directory
        structures.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Auxiliar paths can point either to directories or files.  When
        an auxiliar path points to a directory, that directory
        contains information that modifies somehow the content
        produced from master paths (e.g., translation messages) or
        provides the output information required to know where the
        content produced from the master path should be stored.  When
        an auxiliar path points to a file, that file has no other
        purpose but to document the master path it refers to.
    </para>

    <para>
        Auxiliar paths should never be modified under any reason but
        to satisfy the relationship with the master path.  Liberal
        change of auxiliar paths may suppress the conceptual idea they
        were initially created for; and certainly, automation scripts
        may stop working as expected.
    </para>
     
    <para>
        The relationship between auxiliar paths and master paths is
        built by combining the master path and the second level
        directory structures of the repository.  The master path is
        considered the path identifier and the repository second level
        directory structure is considered the common part of the path
        where the path identifier is appended to.  So, if we have the
        master path <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Brands</filename>,
        we'll end up having, at least, the <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Images/Brands</filename>
        auxiliar path for storing output files and, optionally, one
        path under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename> for storing
        documentation and one path under <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Locales</filename> for storing
        localizations.
    </para> 
    
</sect1>
