<sect1 id="intro-repoconvs-worklines">
        
    <title>Work Lines</title>
        
    <para>
        To organize content production inside &TCAR;, production has
        been divided into individual work lines that relate one
        another.  The is based on the idea of doing one thing well and
        later combine the result of each individual part to achieve a
        higher purpose. Work lines, as conceived here, provide
        relayable output components that combine one another to close
        the production cycle inside &TCAR;.
    </para>
 
    <variablelist>
    <varlistentry>
    <term>Visual Identity (<filename class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename>)</term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        In the production cycle, the first step takes place through
        graphic design. It is focused on preparing design models for
        all the visual manifestation &TCP; is made of.  Here, graphic
        designers describe the visual characteristics of each visual
        manifestation (e.g., image dimensions, position of text in the
        visible area, translation markers, etc.).  Later, once design
        models have been defined, graphic designers take care of
        artistic motifs to define the visual style of those design
        models already created (e.g., how the look and feel).
        Furthermore, graphic designers use the
        <function>render</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to combine both design
        models and artistic motifs in order to produce the final
        images required by each visual manifestaions.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>Localization (<filename class="directory">trunk/L10n</filename>)</term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The second step in the production cycle is to localize
        source files (e.g., SVG, DocBook, Shell scripts). This step
        makes possible to produce localized images, localized
        documentation and localized automation scripts. The
        localization tasks are carried on by translators using the
        <function>locale</function> functionality of the
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script which take care of
        retriving translatable strings from source files and provide a
        consistent localization interface based on the ideas behind
        GNU <application>gettext</application> multi-lingual message
        production.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>Documentation (<filename class="directory">trunk/Manuals</filename>)</term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The third step in the production cycle is to document &TCAR;,
        what it is and how to use it. This step provides the
        conceptual ideas used as base to edificate &TCPCVI; and is
        implemented by mean of &TCARUG;. To write documentation,
        documentors use the <function>help</function> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script which provide an
        consistent interface for building documentation through
        different documentation backends (e.g., Texinfo, DocBook).
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>Automation (<filename class="directory">trunk/Scripts</filename>)</term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        The fourth step in the production cycle is to automate
        frequent tasks inside &TCAR;. This step closes the production
        cycle and provides the production standards needed by all
        different work lines to coexist together.  Here is where we
        develop the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script and all
        its functionalities (e.g., <function>render</function> for
        rendition, <function>help</function> for documentation,
        <function>locale</function> for localization, etc.).  At this
        point it should be obvious, but we consider worth to remember
        that: there is no need to type several tasks, time after time,
        if they can be programmed into just one executable script. 
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

</sect1>
