@subsection Goals

This section exists to store digital typographies used by the CentOS
project.

@subsection Description

@subsection Usage

The CentOS corporate identity is attached to DejaVu LGC font-family.
Whatever artwork you design for CentOS project, that requires
typography usage, must be done using DejaVu LGC font-family.

@table @strong
@item RULE-1: 

For screen desings (e.g., anything that final destination will never
be printed on paper or any medium outside computre screens) use DejaVu
LGC Sans font-family. 

@item RULE-2: 

For non-screen designs (e.g., anything that final desition will be
printed paper or any medium outside computer screens) use DejaVu LGC
Serif font-family. 
@end table

The only execption for the two rules above is the typography used
inside CentOS logo. The CentOS logo is the main visual representation
of the CentOS project so the typography used in must ever be the same
no matter where it be shown. It also have be clear enough to dismiss
any confussion between similar typefaces (e.g., the number one (1)
sometimes is confuesed with the letter @samp{el} (l) or letter
@samp{ai} (i)). 

As CentOS logo typography convenction, the word @samp{CentOS} uses
@samp{Denmark} typography as base, both for the word @samp{CentOS} and
the phrase @samp{Community Enterprise Operating System}. The size of
CentOS logo's phrase is half the size in poits the word @samp{CentOS}
has and it below @samp{CentOS} word and aligned with it on the left.
The distance between @samp{CentOS} word and phrase @samp{Community
Enterprise Operating System} is have the size in points the phrase
has.

When the CentOS release brand is built, typography used for the
release number is DejaVu LGC Serif Regular (not in bold, not in
italic, not in anything else). The release number size is thirty
points larger than default @samp{CentOS} word. The separation between
relase number and @samp{CentOS} word is twice the size in points of
separation between @samp{CentOS} word and phrase @samp{Community
Enterprise Operating System}.

Another component inside CentOS logo is the trademark symbol (TM).
This symbol specifies that the CentOS logo must be consider a product
brand, even it is not a registered one. The trademark symbol uses
DejaVu LGC Sans Regular typography. The trademark symbol is aligned
right-top on the outter side of @samp{CentOS} word. The trademark
symbol must not exceed haf the distance, in points, between
@samp{CentOS} word and the release number on its right.

It would be very convenient for the CentOS Project and its community
to to make a registered trademark (®) of CentOS logo. Make a register
trademark of CentOS Logo prevents legal complications in the market
place of brands. It grants the consistency, through time, of CentOS
project corporate visual identity.

@quotation
@strong{Note} The information about trademarks and corporate identity
is my personal interpretation of
@url{http://en.wikipedia.org/Corporate_identity} and
@url{http://en.wikipedia.org/Trademark} description. If you have
practical experience in these affairs, please serve yourself to
improve this section with your reasons.
@end quotation

@subsection See also

@menu
@end menu
