<sect1>

    <title>2011's</title>

    <para>
        Around 2011, the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script was
        redesigned to start translating XML-based files (e.g., SVG and
        Docbook files) through <command>xml2po</command> program and
        shell scripts (e.g., Bash scripts) through GNU gettext tools.
        This configuration provided a stronger localization interface
        for graphic designers, translators and programmers. The SED
        replacement files are no longer used to handle localization.
    </para>

    <para>
        The <function>render</function>, <function>help</function> and
        <function>locale</function> functionalities consolidated
        themselves as the most frequent tasks performed in &TCAR;
        working copy.  Additionally, the <function>prepare</function>
        and <function>tuneup</function> functionalities were also
        maintained as useful tasks.
    </para>

    <para> 
        In the documentation area, it was introduced the
        transformation of localized DocBook XML DTD instances through
        the <function>render</function> and
        <function>locale</function> functionalities.  In this
        configuration, you use <function>locale</function>
        functionality to localize DocBook source files to your
        prefered language and later, using the
        <function>render</function> functionality, you can produce the
        localized XTHML and PDF output as specified in a XSLT layer.
        Unfortunly, the transformation DocBook XML -> FO -> PDF
        (through PassiveTex) seems to be buggy inside CentOS 5.5, so
        it was commented inside the <command>centos-art.sh</command>
        script. Most documentation is now organized in DocBook format,
        even Texinfo format remains as the only format with automated
        production tasks.
    </para>

    <para>
        In the automation area, the <command>centos-art.sh</command>
        script is able to read configuration files for first time. The
        main goal here was moving some command-line options from
        functionalities to configuration files so they can be adjusted
        in a more persistent manner.
    </para>

</sect1>
