<sect1 id="identity-project-communication">

    <title>Corporate Communication</title>

    <para>
        &TCP; corporate communication is focused on the effective
        propagation of corporate messages. Propagation of corporate
        messages is closely related to the media the organization uses
        as vehicle to distribute its corporate messages.
    </para>

    <para>
        &TCP; corporate communication takes place through the
        following visual manifestations:

        <variablelist>

        <varlistentry>
        <term>&TCD;</term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This visual manifestation communicates its existence
            through software packages.  There are packages that make a
            remarkable use of images, packages that make a moderate
            use of images, and packages that don't use images at all.
            This visual manifestation is focused on providing &TCP;
            images required by software packages that do use images in
            a remarkable way, specially those holding the upstream
            brand (e.g., <package>anaconda</package>,
            <package>grub</package>, <package>syslinux</package>,
            <package>gdm</package>, <package>kdebase</package>).
        </para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The Community Enterprise Operating System itself
            (communicates the essense of &TCP; existence.).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Release Schema (Lifetime) and all the stuff related (e.g.,
            Release Notes, Documentation, Erratas, etc.).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term>&TCW;</term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This visual manifestation communicates its existence
            through web applications.  These web applications are free
            software and come from different providers which
            distribute their work with predefined visual styles.
            Frequently, these predefined visual styles have no visual
            relation among themselves and introduce some visual
            contraditions when they all are put together.  Removing
            these visual contraditions is object of work for this
            visual manifestation.
        </para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The CentOS Chat.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The CentOS Mailing Lists.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The CentOS Forums.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The CentOS Wiki.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Special Interest Groups (SIGs).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Social Events, Interviews, Conferences, etc.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            The extensive network of mirrors available for downloading
            ISO files as well as RPMs and SRPMs used to build them up
            in different architectures.
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>

        <varlistentry>
        <term>&TCS;</term>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            This visual manifestation communicates its existence
            through production of industrial objects carrying &TCB;.
            These branded objects are directed to be distributed on
            social events and/or shops. They provide a way of
            promotion and commercialization that may help to reduce
            &TCP; expenses (e.g., electrical power, hosting, servers,
            full-time-developers, etc.), in a similar way as donations
            may do.
        </para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Stationery (e.g., Posters, Stickers, CD Lables and Sleeves).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Clothes (e.g., Shirts, T-shirts, Pullovers, Caps).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <para>
            Installation media (e.g., CDs, DVD, Pendrives).
        </para>
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        </listitem>
        </varlistentry>
        </variablelist>

    </para>
</sect1>
