<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repo-dirs-section-4" xreflabel="trunk/Identity/Models/Themes" label="4.4">

    <title><filename class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes</filename></title>

    <para>This directory implements the concept of <emphasis>themes'
    design models</emphasis>.</para>

    <para>Themes' design models provide the structural part of images
    (e.g., dimensions, translation markers, position of each element
    on the visible area, etc.) required by
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> to perform theme rendition.  The
    provide the modeling characteristics for all the different visual
    manifestations a theme is made of.  Using themes' design models
    reduce the time needed for propagating an artistic motif to
    different visual manifestations.</para>

    <para>In this directory, themes' design models are organized by
    name. There is one directory for each theme's design model. Each
    design model directory must be named as specified in <xref
    linkend="repo-usage-section-3" />.  Inside themes' design
    models directories, there is one directory for each visual
    manifestions a theme is made of.  These directories are named
    <emphasis>visual manifestation directories</emphasis> and contain
    one or more SVG files to describe the visual structure of that
    visual manifestion.</para>

    <para>Themes' design models are <acronym>SVG</acronym> files and
    can be localized using the <code>locale</code> functionality of
    <command>centos-art.sh</command> script.</para>

</sect1>
