= Welcome to CentOS

image:=TCAR_BASEDIR=/Artworks/Brands/Symbols/Default/Final/ffffff-0/ffffff/64/centos.png[The CentOS Symbol]

== The Community ENTerprise Operating System

http://www.centos.org/[CentOS] is an Enterprise-class Linux
Distribution derived from sources freely provided to the public by a
prominent North American Enterprise Linux vendor.  CentOS conforms
fully with the upstream vendors redistribution policy and aims to be
100% binary compatible.  (CentOS mainly changes packages to remove
upstream vendor branding and artwork.)

CentOS is developed by a small but growing team of core developers. In
turn the core developers are supported by an active user community
including system administrators, network administrators, enterprise
users, managers, core Linux contributors and Linux enthusiasts from
around the world.

CentOS has numerous advantages including: an active and growing user
community, quickly rebuilt, tested, QA'ed errata packages, extensive
http://www.centos.org/modules/tinycontent/index.php?id=15[mirror
network], developers who are contactable and responsive, reliable
Enterprise Linux class distribution and multiple free support avenues
including http://wiki.centos.org[wiki],
http://www.centos.org/modules/tinycontent/index.php?id=8[IRC Chat],
http://www.centos.org/modules/tinycontent/index.php?id=16[Email
Lists], http://www.centos.org/modules/newbb/[Forums], and a dynamic
http://www.centos.org/modules/smartfaq/[FAQ].

== License

Copyright (C) 2003-=COPYRIGHT_YEAR= The CentOS Project. All rights
reserved.

CentOS comes with no guarantees or warranties of any sorts, either
written or implied.  The Distribution is released as
file:///usr/share/doc/centos-release-=MAJOR_RELEASE=/GPL[GPL] work.
Individual packages in the distribution come with their own licences.

// vim: set syntax=asciidoc:
