<section id="repository-history-2013">

    <title>2013's</title>

    <para>
        &TCAR; development was eventually stopped at November, 2012,
        when I moved myself from Cienfuegos to Havana city for working
        on the insides restoration of <quote><ulink
        url="http://www.jesuitasencuba.org/">Sagrado Corazón de Jesús
        y San Ignacio de Loyola</ulink></quote>'s church (also known
        as Reina's church). The first months at Havana were very
        difficult, specially at the moment of finding a stable place
        to set my personal desktop (I was moved from one apartment to
        another, frequently). It wasn't until January, 2013, when I
        started to live in the church building itself when more stable
        possibilities began to appear.
    </para>

    <para>
        On April 9th, I begin a training on how to manage small
        enterprises. This training take place in Reina's church,
        specifically in a centre called <quote>La Anunciata</quote>.
        This training demanded me attention, so the few hours I was
        dedicating to &TCAR; at nights were reduced even more.
    </para>

    <para>
        On May 14th, the work at Reina's church ends for me and I have
        to return to Cienfuegos city. It was not possible to conclude
        the training on business management. I tried to take advantage
        of the situation dedicating more work and study hours to
        &TCAR; and the related automation scripts once again. At this
        point I consider a Git+Gitolite+Gitweb infrastructure for
        &TCAR; and start working on it in my workstation. This, in
        order to implement a new work flow for &TCAR; based on Git
        version control.
    </para>

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-VersionControl">
    <title>Update Version Control Environment</title>
    <para>
        The function environment related to version control tasks was
        renamed from <function>svn</function> to <xref
        linkend="scripts-bash-vcs" /> in order to handle both
        <application>Subversion</application> and
        <application>Git</application> working copies of &TCAR;. This
        change prepares the <command>centos-art.sh</command> script to
        follow the suggestion of a complete migration from
        <application>Subversion</application> to
        <application>Git</application>, at some point.
    </para>

    <para>
        Because the <application>Subversion</application>
        infrastructure is the one in place right now and it is the one
        with most artwork history, it will be
        <application>Subversion</application> the version control
        system we are using as default in
        <filename>centos-art.sh</filename>.  However this will surely
        change as soon as a <application>Git</application>
        infrastructure be approved for &TCAR; and everything could be
        moved there.
    </para>
    </simplesect>

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-ConfigurationFile">
    <title>Add <filename>centos-art.conf</filename> file</title>
    <para>
        Based on the need of supporting more than one application to
        handle version control tasks, it was added the
        <filename>centos-art.conf</filename> file into the <filename
        class="directory">Scripts/Bash</filename> directory. This file
        exists to customize specific behaviours of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script once it has been
        executed (e.g., what kind of application will be used as
        default for doing version control, or even if the actions
        related to version control will be performed or not). 
    </para>
    </simplesect>

    <!--

    <simplesect id="repository-history-2013-UpdateDocbookStructure">
    <title>Update DocBook Physical Divisions</title>
    <para>
        The main purpose of this update is changing the main physical
        division of DocBook documents from entities to XInclude. This
        change affects both <xref linkend="scripts-bash-render"/> and
        <xref linkend="scripts-bash-locale" /> functionalities.
    </para>

    <para>
        ...
    </para>
    </simplesect>
    -->

</section>
