<sect1 id="configurations-ppp-installingmodem">

    <title>Installing Modem Device</title>
    
    <para>
        The modem device installation consists on attacthing the modem
        hardware both to the computer and the telephone line. To
        connect the modem to your computer, you need to connect the
        serial or USB cable that comes from the modem hardware to the
        appropriate input on your computer. To connect the modem to
        the telephone line system, you need to unplug the cable that
        connects your phone device and plug it on the modem device,
        specifically in the port reserved for data transmission.
        Later, using a similar cable, you could connect your phone
        device to the modem's phone port, so you be able of realizing
        phone calls when no data transmition take place, as well.
    </para>

    <para>
        To be on the safe side, do all the installation with the
        computer turned off. Then, when everthing has been put in
        place, turn it on. Once the system is up, you can verify the
        modem hardware using either the <command>lsusb</command> or
        <command>lspci</command> commands. For example, if you are
        using an USB modem like that one we mentioned before, run the
        following command:
    </para>

    <screen>sudo /sbin/lsusb</screen>

    <para>
        and you should get an output similar to the following:
    </para>

<screen>
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 058f:6366 Alcor Micro Corp. Multi Flash Reader
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 06e0:f104 Multi-Tech Systems, Inc.
MT5634ZBA-USB MultiModemUSB (new firmware)
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 046d:c018 Logitech, Inc. Optical Wheel Mouse
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000 
</screen>

    <para>
        The relevant line here is that mentioning the existence of a
        <code>Multi-Tech System, Inc. MT5634ZBA-USB MultiModemUSB (new
        firmware)</code> device.
    </para>

    <para>
        At this point, your computer should be able of responding to
        incoming calls but cannot realize outgoing calls, yet.  To
        administer the way incoming calls are attended in this
        computer, read <xref linkend="configurations-ppp-modem-server"
        />. On the other hand, to realize outgoing calls from this
        computer, you need to specify the server information you want
        to establish connection to, as described in <xref
        linkend="configurations-ppp-modem-client" />.
    </para>

</sect1>
