@subsection Goals

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Bash/Config} directory exists to oraganize
pre-rendering configuration scripts.

@subsection Description

Pre-rendering configuration scripts let you customize the way
@command{centos-art.sh} script renders identity and translation
repository entries.  Pre-rendering configuration scripts are
@file{render.conf.sh} files with @command{loadConfiguration} function
definition inside. 

There is one @file{render.conf.sh} file for each pre-rendering
configuration entry. Pre-rendering configuration entries can be based
both on identity and translation repository entires.  Pre-rendering
configuration entries are required for each identity entry, but not
for translation entries. 

@subsubsection The @file{render.conf.sh} identity model

Inside CentOS Artwork Repository, we consider directories under
@file{trunk/Identity} as identity entries. Identity entries can be
image-based or text-based. When you render image-based identity
entries you need to use image-based pre-rendering configuration
scripts. Likewise, when you render text-based identity entries you
need to use text-based pre-rendering configuration scripts.

Inside both image-based and text-based identity pre-rendering
configuration scripts, we use the @samp{ACTIONS} array variable to
define the way @command{centos-art.sh} script performs identity
rendering. The first entry inside @samp{ACTIONS} array variable (i.e.,
@samp{ACTIONS[0]}) is reserved to define the primary rendering action
(i.e, @samp{renderImage} or @samp{renderText}).  Further entries
inside @samp{ACTIONS} (i.e., @samp{ACTIONS[1]}, @samp{ACTIONS[2]},
etc.) are used to define identity post-rendering actions.

Inside identity pre-rendering configuration scripts, image-based
pre-rendering configuration scripts look like the following:

@verbatim
#!/bin/bash

function loadConfiguration {

    # Define post-rendering actions. An empty value means that no
    # post-rendering action is applied.
    ACTIONS[0]='renderImage'
    ACTIONS[1]='renderFormats: tif xpm pdf ppm'

}
@end verbatim

Inside identity pre-rendering configuration scripts, text-based
pre-rendering configuration scripts look like the following:

@verbatim
#!/bin/bash

function loadConfiguration {

    # Define post-rendering actions. An empty value means that no
    # post-rendering action is applied.
    ACTIONS[0]='renderText'
    ACTIONS[1]='formatText: --width=70 --uniform-spacing'

}
@end verbatim

When using identity pre-rendering configuration scripts, you can
extend both image-based and text-based pre-rendering configuration
scripts using image-based and text-based post-rendering actions,
respectively. 

@subsubsection The @file{render.conf.sh} translation model

Translation pre-rendering configuration scripts take precedence before
default translation rendering action. Translation pre-rendering
actions are useful when default translation rendering action do not
fit itself to translation entry rendering requirements.

@subsection Usage

Use the following commands to administer both identity and translation
pre-rendering configuration scripts:

@table @samp

@item centos-art config 'path/to/dir/' --create

Use this command to create @samp{path/to/dir} related pre-rendering
configuration script.

@item centos-art config 'path/to/dir/' --edit

Use this command to edit @samp{path/to/dir} related pre-rendering
configuration script.  

@item centos-art config 'path/to/dir/' --read

Use this command to read @samp{path/to/dir} related pre-rendering
configuration script.  

@item centos-art config 'path/to/dir/' --remove

Use this command to remove @samp{path/to/dir} related pre-rendering
configuration script.

@end table

In the commands above, @samp{path/to/dir} refers to one renderable
directory path under @file{trunk/Identity} or
@file{trunk/Translations} structures only. 

@subsection See also

@menu
* trunk Scripts Bash Config Identity::
* trunk Scripts Bash Config Translations::
* trunk Scripts Bash::
@end menu
