<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect2 id="gpl-terms-and-conditions-section-2" xreflabel="Section 2">

    <title>Section 2</title>

    <para>You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any
    portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy
    and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of
    Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these
    conditions:</para>

    <orderedlist numeration="loweralpha">
        <listitem>
            <para>You must cause the modified files to carry prominent
            notices stating that you changed the files and the date of
            any change.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
           <para>You must cause any work that you distribute or
           publish, that in whole or in part contains or is derived
           from the Program or any part thereof, to be licensed as a
           whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of
           this License.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>If the modified program normally reads commands
            interactively when run, you must cause it, when started
            running for such interactive use in the most ordinary way,
            to print or display an announcement including an
            appropriate copyright notice and a notice that there is no
            warranty (or else, saying that you provide a warranty) and
            that users may redistribute the program under these
            conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of
            this License.  
            
            <note>
                <title>Exception</title>
                <para>
                  If the Program itself is interactive but does not
                  normally print such an announcement, your work based
                  on the Program is not required to print an
                  announcement.
                </para>
            </note>
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    
    <para>These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.
    If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the
    Program, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate
    works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not
    apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
    works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a
    whole which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of
    the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions
    for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each
    and every part regardless of who wrote it.</para>
    
    <para>Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights
    or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather,
    the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of
    derivative or collective works based on the Program.</para>
    
    <para>In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on
    the Program with the Program (or with a work based on the Program)
    on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
    other work under the scope of this License.</para>

</sect2>
