<chapter id="repo-usage">
        
    <title>Repository Usage Conditions</title>
        
    <para>
        &TCAR; is a collaborative tool that anyone can have access to.
        However, changing that tool in any form is something that
        should be requested in &TCDML;.  Generally, people download
        working copies of &TCAR; to study its layout, make local
        changes, test the changes really work the way expected and
        finally, request access to publish them up.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        Once you've received access to publish your changes and as
        long as you behave as a <emphasis>good cooperating
        citizen</emphasis>, there is no need for you to request
        permission to publish new changes. 
    </para>
        
    <para>
        As a good cooperating citizen one understand of a person who
        respects the work already done by others and share ideas with
        authors before changing relevant parts of their work,
        specially in situations when the access required to realize
        the changes has been granted already.  Of course, there is a
        time when conversation has taken place, the paths has been
        traced and changing the work is so obvious that there is no
        need for you to talk about it; that's because you already did,
        you already built the trust to keep going. As complement, the
        mailing list mentioned above is available for sharing ideas in
        a way that good relationship between community citizens could
        be constantly balanced.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        The relationship between community citizens is monitored by
        repository administrators. Repository administrators are
        responsible of granting that everything goes the way it needs
        to go in order for &TCAR; to accomplish its mission which is:
        to provide a colaborative tool for &TCC; where &TCPCVI; could
        be built and maintained by &TCC; itself. Repository
        administrators have the reposability of creating new user's
        account, setting permissions and revoking publishing rights to
        ill-willed users, as well.
    </para>
     
    <para>
        The content produced inside &TCAR; is copyright of &TCAS; and
        this is something you, as author, need to be aware of because
        you are giving part of your creation's rights to someone else;
        &TCAS; for this matter.  In this case, your work is
        distributed using &TCAS; as copyright holder not your name.
        Because &TCAS; is the copyright holder, is the license chosen
        by &TCAS; the one applied to your work, so it is the one you
        need to agree with before making a creation inside &TCAR;. 
    </para>

    <para>
        We belive that working together is far better than working
        alone; eventhough somtimes, working alone is the only possible
        way of reaching the state of glory which is to work
        syncronized all together in freedom.
    </para>

</chapter>
