@subheading Goals

The @file{trunk/Scripts/Functions/Help/Backends/Docbook} organizes
the implementation of @samp{docbook} documentation backend used by
@code{help} functionality of @command{centos-art.sh} script.

@subheading Description

Creation of new language-specific documentation structure is based on
English documentation structure. When we try to edit a documentation
entry in a documentation structure that doesn't exist,
@command{centos-art.sh} script renders the new documentation structure
using the language-specific translation messages for the current
language information. If the @command{centos-art.sh} script doesn't
find any translation message for the current language, it asks you to
create them through the @code{locale} functionality. Later, uses the
translation messages to render the new language-specific documentation
structure. Obviously, if translation messages are created but no
localization is inside them you'll have the new language-specific
documentation struction in the same language of source documentation
structure (i.e., English).

Localization of language-specific documentation structures are
maintained through the @code{locale} and @code{render} functionalities
of @command{centos-art.sh} script. Eventhough, a language-specific
documentation structure is available, you must not edit it directly
because it is produced automatically from translation messages.
Instead, edit translation messages whenever you need to update
language-specific documentation structures. Using this configuration
let us to have an accurate documentation structures: running the
@code{locale} functionality will take advice of new changes and will
call our attention about them.  This way, we go directly to changes
and save the time of looking them inside the English documentation
structure.

@subheading Usage

@itemize
@item ...
@end itemize

@subheading See also

@itemize
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions Help Backends} 
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions Help} 
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts Functions} 
@item @ref{Directories trunk Scripts} 
@item @ref{Directories trunk}
@end itemize
