<preface id="preface">

    <title>Preface</title>

    <para>
        Welcome to &TCARUG;, the official documentation of &TCAR;.
    </para>

    <para>
        This book describes the corporate visual identity of &TCP; and
        the way it is produced. If you are interested in making &TCP;
        a more beautiful project, this book is definitly for you.
    </para>

    <para>
        To make the information in this book managable, it has been
        organized in the following parts:
    </para>

    <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="repo" /> describes the convenctions you should
        follow to keep everything organized and consistent inside the
        repository directory structure, how to to install and
        configure a working copy inside your workstation. At the end
        of this part you will find a history of most relevant changes
        committed to the repository along the years.
    </para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="identity" /> describes the corporate visual
        identity of the organization known as &TCP; and the production
        tasks related to image rendition inside &TCAR;.  If you are a
        graphic designer, this part of the book might result
        interesting to you.
    </para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="locale" /> describes production tasks related to
        content internationalization and localization inside &TCAR;.
        If you are a translator, this part of the book might result
        interesting to you.
    </para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="manuals" /> describes production tasks related
        to content documentation inside &TCAR;. If you are a
        documentor, this part of the book might result interesting to
        you.
    </para>
    </listitem>

    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="scripts" /> describes automation of production
        tasks inside &TCAR;. If you are a programmer, this part of the
        book might result interesting to you.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    
    <listitem>
    <para>
        <xref linkend="licenses" /> organizes the licenses mentioned
        in this book.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    
    </itemizedlist>

    <para>
        This book assumes you have a basic understanding of &TCD;.  If
        you need help with it, go to the <ulink
        url="http://wiki.centos.org/Help">Help</ulink> page inside
        &TCWIKI; for or a list of different places you can find help.
    </para>

    &preface-overview;
    &preface-history;
    &preface-docconvs;
    &preface-feedback;

</preface>
