Welcome to the @emph{CentOS Artwork Repository Manual}.

The CentOS Artwork Repository Manual contains information on how to
produce the CentOS Corporate Visual Identity in the working copies of
CentOS Artwork Repository
(@url{https://projects.centos.org/svn/artwork/}). If you are looking
for a comprehensive, task-oriented guide for understanding how the
CentOS Corporate Visual Identity is produced, this is the manual for
you.

This manual discusses the following intermedite topics: 

@itemize
@item The CentOS Brand
@item The CentOS Corporate Visual Structure
@item The CentOS Corporate Visual Style
@end itemize

This manual is organized in the same way the CentOS Artwork Repository
file system does. In the CentOS Artwork Repository we use directories
to store conceptual ideas of CentOS Corporate Visual Identity.  For
this manual sake, each directory in the CentOS Artwork Repository has
its own documentation section to describe the related conceptual
ideas. @xref{Filesystem,,Repository File System}, for more information.

This manual is structured dynamically through @command{centos-art}
command-line.  The @command{centos-art} command-line provides an
interface for writers to document directories in the working copies of
CentOS Artwork Repository using a predefined Texinfo documentation
structure. The @command{centos-art} command-line, also, takes care of
updating menus, nodes and cross-references inside the documentation
structure when documentation sections are added to or removed from the
manual.  @xref{Filesystem trunk Scripts Bash Cli Functions Manual,,The
@file{trunk/Scripts/Bash/Cli/Functions/Manual} Directory}, for more
information.

This guide assumes you have a basic understanding of your CentOS
system. If you need help with CentOS, refer to the help page on the
CentOS Wiki (@url{http://wiki.centos.org/Help}) for a list of
different places you can go to look for help.
