In this manual, certain words are represented in different fonts,
typefaces, sizes, and weights. This highlighting is systematic;
different words are represented in the same style to indicate their
inclusion in a specific category. The types of words that are
represented this way include the following:

@table @command
@item command

Linux commands (and other operating system commands, when used) are
represented this way. This style should indicate to you that you can
type the word or phrase on the command line and press Enter to invoke
a command. Sometimes a command contains words that would be displayed
in a different style on their own (such as file names). In these
cases, they are considered to be part of the command, so the entire
phrase is displayed as a command. For example:

Use the @command{centos-art identity --render='path/to/dir'} command
to produce contents inside the @file{trunk/Identity} directory
structure.
@end table

@table @file
@item file name

File names, directory names, paths, and RPM package names are
represented this way. This style indicates that a particular file or
directory exists with that name on your system. Examples:

The @file{init.sh} file in @file{trunk/Scripts/Bash/Cli/} directory is
the initialization script, written in Bash, used to automate most of
tasks in the repository.

The @command{centos-art} command uses the @file{ImageMagick} RPM
package to convert images from PNG format to many different formats.
@end table

@table @key
@item @key{key}

A key on the keyboard is shown in this style. For example:

To use @key{TAB} completion to list particular files in a directory,
type @command{ls}, then a character, and finally the Tab key. Your
terminal displays the list of files in the working directory that
begin with that character.  
@end table

@table @key
@item @key{key-combination}
A combination of keystrokes is represented in this way. For example:

The @key{Ctrl-Alt-Backspace} key combination exits your graphical
session and returns you to the graphical login screen or the console.
@end table

@table @code
@item @code{computer output}

Text in this style indicates text displayed to a shell prompt such as
error messages and responses to commands. For example:

The @command{ls} command displays the contents of a directory. For example:

@verbatim
Config                           manual_renameEntry.sh
manual_copyEntry.sh              manual_restoreCrossReferences.sh
manual_deleteCrossReferences.sh  manual_searchIndex.sh
@end verbatim

The output returned in response to the command (in this case, the
contents of the directory) is shown in this style.
@end table

Additionally, we use several different strategies to draw your
attention to certain pieces of information. In order of urgency, these
items are marked as a note, tip, important, caution, or warning. For
example:

@quotation
@strong{Note} Remember that Linux is case sensitive. In other words, a
rose is not a ROSE is not a rOsE. 
@end quotation

@quotation
@strong{Tip} The directory @file{/usr/share/doc/} contains additional
documentation for packages installed on your system. 
@end quotation

@quotation
@strong{Important} If you modify the DHCP configuration file, the
changes do not take effect until you restart the DHCP daemon. 
@end quotation

@quotation
@strong{Caution} Do not perform routine tasks as root --- use a
regular user account unless you need to use the root account for
system administration tasks.
@end quotation

@quotation
@strong{Warning} Be careful to remove only the necessary partitions.
Removing other partitions could result in data loss or a corrupted
system environment.
@end quotation
