<?xml version="1.0"?>
<section>

    <title>Document convenctions</title>

    <para>In this manual the personal pronoun @emph{we} is used to
    repesent @emph{The CentOS Artwork SIG}. This is, the group of
    persons building the CentOS Artwork Repository.</para>

    <para>In this manual, certain words are represented in different
    fonts, typefaces, sizes, and weights. This highlighting is
    systematic; different words are represented in the same style to
    indicate their inclusion in a specific category. The types of
    words that are represented this way include the following:</para>

    <glosslist>
        <glossentry>
            <glossterm><command>command</command></glossterm>
            <glossdef>
                <para> Linux commands (and other operating system
                commands, when used) are represented this way. This
                style should indicate to you that you can type the
                word or phrase on the command line and press Enter to
                invoke a command. Sometimes a command contains words
                that would be displayed in a different style on their
                own (such as file names). In these cases, they are
                considered to be part of the command, so the entire
                phrase is displayed as a command. For example:</para>

                <para>Use the @command{centos-art identity
                --render='path/to/dir'} command to produce contents
                inside the @file{trunk/Identity} directory structure.
                </para>
            </glossdef>
        </glossentry>

        <glossentry>
            <glossterm><filename>file name</filename></glossterm>
            <glossdef>
                <para>File names, directory names, paths, and RPM
                package names are represented this way. This style
                indicates that a particular file or directory exists
                with that name on your system. Examples:</para>

                <para>The @file{init.sh} file in
                @file{trunk/Scripts/Bash/Cli/} directory is the
                initialization script, written in Bash, used to
                automate most of tasks in the repository.</para>

                <para>The @command{centos-art} command uses the
                @file{ImageMagick} RPM package to convert images from
                PNG format to other formats.</para>
            </glossdef>
        </glossentry>

        <glossentry>
            <glossterm><keycap>key</keycap></glossterm>
            <glossdef>
                <para> A key on the keyboard is shown in this style.
                For example:</para>

                <para>To use <keycap>TAB</keycap> completion to list
                particular files in a directory, type @command{ls},
                then a character, and finally the Tab key. Your
                terminal displays the list of files in the working
                directory that begin with that character.</para>
            </glossdef>
        </glossentry>

        <glossentry>
            <glossterm><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>key-combination</keycap></keycombo></glossterm>
            <glossdef>
                <para>A combination of keystrokes is represented in
                this way. For example:</para>

                <para>The <keycombo
                action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Backspace</keycap></keycombo>
                key combination exits your graphical session and
                returns you to the graphical login screen or the
                console.</para> 
                
            </glossdef> 
                
        </glossentry>

        <glossentry>
            <glossterm><computeroutput>computer output</computeroutput></glossterm>
            <glossdef>
            <para> Text in this style indicates text displayed to a
            shell prompt such as error messages and responses to
            commands. For example:</para>

            <para>The @command{ls} command displays the contents of a
            directory. For example:

            <programlisting>
Config                          help_renameEntry.sh
help_copyEntry.sh               help_restoreCrossReferences.sh
help_deleteCrossReferences.sh   help_searchIndex.sh
            </programlisting>

            The output returned in response to the command (in this
            case, the contents of the directory) is shown in this
            style.</para>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    </glosslist>

    <para>Additionally, we use several different strategies to draw
    your attention to certain pieces of information. In order of
    urgency, these items are marked as a note, tip, important,
    caution, or warning. For example:</para>

    <note>
        <para>@strong{Note} Remember that Linux is case sensitive. In
        other words, a rose is not a ROSE is not a rOsE.</para>
    </note> 

    <tip>
        <para>@strong{Tip} The directory @file{/usr/share/doc/}
        contains additional documentation for packages installed on
        your system.</para>
    </tip>

    <important>
        <para>@strong{Important} If you modify the DHCP configuration
        file, the changes do not take effect until you restart the
        DHCP daemon.</para>
    </important>

    <caution>
        <para>@strong{Caution} Do not perform routine tasks as root
        &mdash; use a regular user account unless you need to use the root
        account for system administration tasks.</para>
    </caution>

    <warning>
        <para>@strong{Warning} Be careful to remove only the necessary
        partitions.  Removing other partitions could result in data
        loss or a corrupted system environment.</para>
    </warning>

</section>
