<section id="preface-overview">
    <title>Overview</title>

    <para>
        The corporations always have a corporate identity, even when
        they don't take an intentional control over it. It is a choise
        from the corporation to define how much control to take over
        its identity.  This kind of control is expensive and not all
        corporations are able to maintain it.  However, it is
        necessary that, based on pragmatic facts, the corporation
        assume an acceptable degree of compromise with its identity in
        order to create a consistent idea of itself in a way that can
        be progresively improved through time.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        During the years (2003-2009), we've seen a growing interest
        inside &TCC; for helping on &TCP; development. Some people
        seem to be very clear about what the project needs are and how
        to maintain it being a very stable project, but others however
        don't to get what &TCP; is (even it is explained time after
        time) and sometimes decide to put their efforts in the wrong
        direction making everything to be a waste of time and source
        of distraction from what is really needed.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        &TCAR; phases the question <quote>What can I do for
        &TCP;?</quote> by identifying different work lines you can
        join in and providing automated production mechanisms that
        complement one another according to each work line needs so
        consistent results can be achieved inside a distributed
        environment under version control.  For example, consider an
        environment where there are graphic designers to produce
        images, documentors to produce documentation manuals (whose
        can use images produced by graphic designers), programmers to
        produce automation scripts (needed to standardize production
        tasks) and translators to localize source files created by
        graphic designers, documetors and programmers.  Once such
        environment has been implemented, it would be possible for
        packagers to take localized images and localized documentation
        from &TCAR; (through an automation script probably) to
        rebrand/update the content of those packages inside &TCD; that
        must include information specific to &TCP; itself (e.g., boot
        loader, distribution installer, release notes, display
        managers, release notes, web browsers default page, etc.).
    </para>

    <para>
        Most production tasks inside &TCAR; are focused on the files
        needed to implement &TCP; corporate visual identity.<footnote>
        <para>
            Notice that, here, visual identity means everything
            perceived through the human's visual sences (i.e., the
            human eyes), but the corporate identity is a wider concept
            that extends to all human senses (i.e., visibilty (eyes),
            audition (ears), scent (nose), touch (fingers), and savour
            (tongue)), not just that one related to visual aspects.
            Nevertheless, we need to be consequent with the media
            where &TCP; manifests its existence on, as described in
            <xref linkend="identity" />. 
        </para></footnote> This includes everything from file edition
        (e.g., text width, text indentation, line numbering, text
        tabulation, etc.) up to how the web sites, distribution, and
        industrial stuff (e.g., pullovers, caps, installation media,
        etc.) look and feel.  Notice that, more specific details like
        typography, window design, icons, menu items, etc., inside
        &TCD; are already covered by &TCP; upstream provider.  In our
        effort to be 100% binary compatible with the upstream provider
        and also keeping maintainance low, we stand over those
        specific details as much as possible assuming them as default.
        However, if you feel brave enough (and prove your ability to
        keep yourself being that way) it would be possible to open a
        work line for you to maintain variants of such very specific
        details inside &TCAR;.
    </para>
        
    <para>
        In addition to visual manifestations, there are also emotional
        feelings and ethical behaviours that must be considered as
        part of &TCP; corporate identity. A pleasant experience in
        this area includes &TCWIKI;, specifically the way it was
        conceived and administered. When the &TCWIKI; was published,
        &TCP; published a list of needs with it so anyone could
        contribute based on them.  Not much time after that, the list
        of tasks triggered some souls' motivations ruled by the good
        will of initiating the translation of that content published
        inside the wiki, redesigning its visual style, proposing the
        TreeFlower theme for &TCD;, and reducing to zero the
        contraditions of precoceived minds with respect, reason and
        passion. As result of this experience, we found that &TCC;
        posseses an incredible strong creative force, however, a long
        path must be traveled before it can be focalized into the
        right direction because: it isn't enough just telling what the
        right direction is, it is also necessary to provide the
        vehicles for &TCC; be able of moving through it.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        &TCAR; extends the feelings and ethicals behaviours from
        &TCWIKI; to itself by identifying the visual manifestations
        &TCP; is made of (i.e., tracing a direction) and allowing
        people to develop them through standardized procedures inside
        a colaborative environment (i.e., providing the vehicles).
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Finally, if you find yourself needing to do something for
        &TCP; and &TCAR; isn't the place for it,  be sure to define
        what that something exactly is and also make it a community
        effort so it can be validated as something useful to the
        community itself.  Otherwise, the effort would loose its
        initial sense soon enough so as to be considered seriously.
        Notice that the way these needs are described may take
        different forms: they can be written and organized inside a
        book, an article, or even a well documented program ;-).
    </para>

</section>
