<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="repo-history-section-2" label="1.2">

    <title>2009</title>

    <para>The rendition script was at a very rustic state where only
    slide images could be produced, so it was redesigned to extend the
    image production to other areas, not just slide images.  In this
    configuration, one SVG file was used as input to produce a
    translated instance of it which, in turn, was used to produce one
    translated PNG image as output.  The SVG translated instance was
    created through SED replacement commands. The translated PNG image
    was created from the SVG translated instance using Inkscape
    command-line interface.</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script was named
    <quote>render.sh</quote>.</para>
    
    <para>The repository directory structure was prepared to receive
    the rendition script using design templates and translation files
    in the same location.  There was one directory structure for each
    artwork that needed to be produced. In this configuration, if you
    would want to produce the same artwork with a different visual
    style or structure, it was needed to create a new directory
    structure for it because both the image structure and the image
    visual style were together in the design template.</para>
    
    <para>The rendition script was moved to a common place and linked
    from different directory structures. There was no need to have the
    same code in different directory structures if it could be in just
    one place and then be linked from different locations.</para>
    
    <para>The concepts about corporate identity began to be
    considered. As referece, it was used the book <quote>Corporate
    Identity</quote> by Wally Olins (1989) and Wikipedia (<ulink
    url="http://en.wikipedia.org/Corporate_identity" />). This way,
    the rendition script main's goal becomes to: automate production
    of a monolithic corporate visual identity structure, based on the
    mission and the release schema of The CentOS Project.</para>
    
    <para>The directory structures started to be documented inside the
    repository using text files without markup.  Later, documentation
    in flat text files was moved to LaTeX format and this way
    <quote>The CentOS Artwork Repository Manual</quote> started to
    take form.</para>
    
</sect1>
