<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sect1 id="licenses-gfdl-section-5" xreflabel="Modification">

    <title>Modifications</title>

    <para>You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the
    Document under the conditions of sections <xref
    linkend="licenses-gfdl-section-3" /> and <xref
    linkend="licenses-gfdl-section-4" /> above, provided that you
    release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with
    the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus
    licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to
    whoever possesses a copy of it.  In addition, you must do these
    things in the Modified Version:

    <orderedlist numeration="upperalpha">
    
        <listitem>
            <para> Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a
            title distinct from that of the Document, and from those
            of previous versions (which should, if there were any, be
            listed in the History section of the Document).  You may
            use the same title as a previous version if the original
            publisher of that version gives permission.</para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
            <para>List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more
            persons or entities responsible for authorship of the
            modifications in the Modified Version, together with at
            least five of the principal authors of the Document (all
            of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five),
            unless they release you from this requirement.</para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
            <para>State on the Title page the name of the publisher of
            the Modified Version, as the publisher.</para>
        </listitem>
    
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve all the copyright notices of the
            Document.</para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
            <para>Add an appropriate copyright notice for your
            modifications adjacent to the other copyright
            notices.</para>
        </listitem>

        <listitem>
            <para>Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a
            license notice giving the public permission to use the
            Modified Version under the terms of this License, in the
            form shown in the Addendum below.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve in that license notice the full lists of
            Invariant Sections and required Cover Texts given in the
            Document's license notice.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Include an unaltered copy of this License.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve the section Entitled
            <quote>History</quote>, Preserve its Title, and add to it
            an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
            publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title
            Page.  If there is no section Entitled
            <quote>History</quote> in the Document, create one stating
            the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
            given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the
            Modified Version as stated in the previous
            sentence.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve the network location, if any, given in the
            Document for public access to a Transparent copy of the
            Document, and likewise the network locations given in the
            Document for previous versions it was based on.  These may
            be placed in the <quote>History</quote> section.  You may
            omit a network location for a work that was published at
            least four years before the Document itself, or if the
            original publisher of the version it refers to gives
            permission.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>For any section Entitled
            <quote>Acknowledgements</quote> or
            <quote>Dedications</quote>, Preserve the Title of the
            section, and preserve in the section all the substance and
            tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or
            dedications given therein.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
            unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section
            numbers or the equivalent are not considered part of the
            section titles.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Delete any section Entitled <quote>Endorsements</quote>.  Such
            a section may not be included in the Modified
            Version.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled
            <quote>Endorsements</quote> or to conflict in title with
            any Invariant Section.</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.</para>
        </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections
    or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no
    material copied from the Document, you may at your option
    designate some or all of these sections as invariant.  To do this,
    add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
    Version's license notice.  These titles must be distinct from any
    other section titles.</para>
    
    <para>You may add a section Entitled <quote>Endorsements</quote>,
    provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified
    Version by various parties&ndash;for example, statements of peer
    review or that the text has been approved by an organization as
    the authoritative definition of a standard.</para>
    
    <para>You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover
    Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the
    end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one
    passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be
    added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the
    Document already includes a cover text for the same cover,
    previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity
    you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may
    replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous
    publisher that added the old one.</para>
    
    <para>The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by
    this License give permission to use their names for publicity for
    or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.</para>
    
</sect1>
