Customization
=============

The mantis' customization provided here is part of the monolithic
visual style The CentOS Project is attached to. Once you install the
mantis' customization provided here, the visual transition between the
mantis website and other CentOS web sites already customized will be
nice and easy to recognize because of the common visual patterns
(e.g., background, header, logo, favicon and footer).

How To Install 
--------------

1. yum install mantis-1.1.8-5.el5

   NOTE: This require you to have EPEL repository installed in your
   CentOS distribution. To know how to install the EPEL repository
   read http://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories

2. Configure mantisBT application and be sure it works as you expect.
In this step you create the database you'll use to store data, connect
the mantis application with it and install the tables using the web
interface.

3. Copy the theme files provided in this customization into your
system's mantisBT tree, as root user.  The source-target relation
between files is shown in the following table:

------------------+-----------------------------------------------
SOURCE            | TARGET
------------------+-----------------------------------------------
bottom.html       | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/bottom.html
top.html          | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/top.html
stylesheet.css    | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/stylesheet.css
images/logo.png   | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/images/logo.png
images/favicon.ico| /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/images/favicon.png
images/h2.png     | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centos/images/h2.png
images/header.png | /usr/share/mantis/themes/centosimages/header.png
------------------+-----------------------------------------------

This theme also provides a customized version of mantis_offline.php
file that you can copy into /etc/mantis/ directory when you want to
get mantis' site off-line for maintenance.

4. Check file permissions. Be sure these files are readable by apache
web server. For example, if both user and group for these files are
set to `root', then the `-rw-r--r--' rights are ok for all these
files.

5. Update your configuration file. Be sure it has the following
information:

	# --- html variables --------------
	$g_window_title 	    = "The CentOS Bugs";
	$g_top_include_page 	= "themes/centos/top.html";
	$g_bottom_include_page 	= "themes/centos/bottom.html";
	$g_css_include_file 	= "themes/centos/stylesheet.css";
	$g_favicon_image 	    = "themes/centos/images/favicon.ico";

6. Point your browser to mantisBT install and reload it to see the
changes.

Package Updates
---------------
An important characteristic of this theme is that all modifications
take place in the configuration file and CSS files. No PHP files
inside the mantis package needs to be modified (except the
configuration file, of course.). This way you can update the mantis
package without loosing the visual style you already set for it.

The only problem is the $g_favicon_image variable, it doesn't work.
So, if you want to have a favicon different to Mantis's default, you
need to overwrite the images/favicon.ico file with the one you want to
use. This is something you need to do the next time you update the
matnis package (unless the $g_favicon_image variable gets alive).

Feedback
--------
Your comments and suggestions are very welcome. In fact, we need them
to make this work better. Thus, feel free to send e-mails to
centos-devel@centos.org mailing list or fill a ticket at
https://projects.centos.org/trac/artwork/newticket page.

Authors
-------
The following people have contributed efforts to this theme:

    * Alain Reguera Delgado <alain.reguera@gmail.com>, 2013
