<sect1 id="manuals-production-implementing-structure">
    <title>Implementing Document Structure</title>

    <para>
        To create a manual like the one described in <xref
        linkend="manuals-production-identifying-structure" />,
        you need to use the <code>help</code> functionality of
        <command>centos-art.sh</command> script as it is described in
        the following list of commands:
    </para>

    <variablelist>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <command>centos-art help --edit "tcar-fs"</command>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This command creates the base structure of
        <citetitle>TCAR-FS</citetitle> manual and opens its main
        definition file with your favorite text editor so you can
        update manual's definition values like title, subtitle,
        author, etc.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <command>centos-art help --edit "tcar-fs::trunk"</command>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This command creates the base structure for the
        <quote>trunk</quote> chapter and opens its main definition
        file with your favorite text editor so you can update the
        chapter introduction. This very same procedure is used to
        create <quote>branches</quote> and <quote>tags</quote>
        chapters, just be sure to change the chapter field
        accordingly.
    </para>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
    <term>
        <command>centos-art help --edit "tcar-fs::trunk:identity"</command>
    </term>
    <listitem>
    <para>
        This command creates the <quote>identity</quote> section
        inside the <quote>trunk</quote> chapter. If the chapter
        doesn't exist it will be created first. In this command, the
        <quote>identity</quote> section refers to <filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity</filename> directory inside
        &TCAR;. In order to document other directories, follow the
        same procedure but using minus signs to separate directories.
        For example, to document the <quote><filename
        class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes</filename></quote>
        directory you should use the
        <quote><code>tcar-fs::trunk:identity-models-themes</code></quote>
        documentation entry.
    </para>
    
    <note>
        <para>
            In the very specific case of
            <citetitle>TCAR-FS</citetitle> manual, it is also possible
            to refer chapters and sections using a <quote><filename
            class="directory">path/to/dir</filename></quote> format.
            For example, the reference
            <quote><code>tcar-fs::trunk:identity-models-themes</code></quote>
            can be also specified as <quote><filename
            class="directory">trunk/Identity/Models/Themes</filename></quote>,
            in case you feel more confortable with it than the former
            one.
        </para>
    </note>
    </listitem>
    </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>

</sect1>
