@subsection Goals

@itemize
@item Organize background images for Modern theme.
@end itemize

@subsection Description

Inside @file{Motifs} directory, the @file{Backgrounds/} directory is
used to create vectorial designs using Inkscape and background images
using Gimp. Later, you can export background images as @file{.png} and
load them in your vectorial design project using the import feautre of
Inkscape.

You may need to repeat this technic for different screen resoluions.
In that case you need to create one file for each screen resolution
and do the appropriate linking inside .svg to .png files.  For example
if you need to produce background images in 800x600 you need to create
the following file:

@example
xcf/800x600.xcf
@end example

to produce the background image:

@example
img/800x600-bg.png
@end example

which is loaded in: 

@example
svg/800x600.svg
@end example

to produce the final background image:

@example
img/800x600.png         
@end example

The @file{img/800x600.png} background image is produced automatically
by means of rendering scripts.

In other cases (e.g. Anaconda), it is possible that you need to make
some variations to one background image that don't want to appear on
regular background images of the same resolution. In this case you
need to create a new and specific background image for that art
component.  For example, if you need to produce the background image
used by Anconda (800x600) art works you create the file:

@example
xcf/800x600-anaconda.xcf
@end example

to produce the background image:

@example
img/800x600-anaconda-bg.png
@end example

which is loaded in: 

@example
svg/800x600-anaconda.svg
@end example

to produce the file:

@example
img/800x600-anaconda.png
@end example

The 800x600-anaconda.png file is used by all Anaconda art works
sharing a common 800x600 screen resolution (e.g., Header, Progress,
Splash, Firstboot, etc.). The Anaconda Prompt is indexed to 16 colors
and 640x480 pixels so you need to create a 640x480 background image
for it, and take the color limitation into account when designing it.

Background images without artistic motif are generally used as based
to build the Background images that do contain the theme artistic
motif. 

Background images are linked (using the @b{import} feature of
Inkscape) inside almost all theme art works. This structure let you
make centralized changes on the visual identity and propagate them
quickly to other areas. 

In this structure you design background images for different screen
resolutions based on the theme artistic motif.

You may create different artistic motifs propositions based
on the same conceptual idea. The conceptual idea is what defines a
theme. Artistic motifs are interpretations of that idea.

Inside this directory artistic motifs are organized by name (e.g.,
TreeFlower, Modern, etc.).

Each artistic motif directory represents just one unique artistic
motif. 

The artistic motif is graphic design used as common pattern to connect
all visual manifestations inside one unique theme.  The artistic motif
is based on a conceptual idea.  Artistic motifs provide visual style
to themes.

Designing artistic motifs is for anyone interested in creating
beautiful themes for CentOS.  When building a theme for CentOS, the
first design you need to define is the artistic motif. 


Inside CentOS Artwork Repository, theme visual styles (Motifs) and
theme visual structures (Models) are two different working lines.
When you design an artistic motif for CentOS you concentrate on its
visual style, and eventualy, use the @command{centos-art} command line
interface to render the visual style, you are currently producing,
against an already-made theme model in order to produce the final
result.  Final images are stored under @file{Motifs/} directory using
the model name, and the model directory structure as reference.

The artistic motif base structure is used by @command{centos-art} to
produce images automatically. This section describes each directory of
CentOS artistic motif base structure.

@subsection Usage

The @file{Backgrounds/} directory is probably the core component,
inside @file{Motifs/} directory structure.  Inside @file{Backgrounds/}
directory you produce background images used by almost all theme
models (e.g., Distribution, Websites, Promotion, etc.).  The
@file{Backgrounds/} directory can contain subdirectories to help you
organize the design process. 

@subsection See also

@menu
* trunk Identity Themes Motifs Modern Backgrounds Img::
* trunk Identity Themes Motifs Modern Backgrounds Tpl::
* trunk Identity Themes Motifs Modern Backgrounds Xcf::
* trunk Translations Identity Themes Backgrounds::
@end menu

